Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

When used in this report, the terms "The Coca-Cola Company," "Company," "we," "us" and "our" mean The Coca-Cola Company and all entities included in our condensed consolidated financial statements.

During the nine months ended September 25, 2020, the effects of a novel strain of coronavirus ("COVID-19") pandemic and the related actions by governments around the world to attempt to contain the spread of the virus have impacted our business globally. In particular, the outbreak and preventive measures taken to contain COVID-19 negatively impacted our unit case volume and our price, product and geographic mix in all of our operating segments, primarily due to unfavorable channel and product 
mix as consumer demand has shifted to more at-home consumption versus away from home.

In response to the COVID-19 outbreak and business disruption, we have five priorities:

• To ensure the health and safety of our employees

• To support and make a difference in the communities we serve

• To keep our brands in supply and to maintain the quality and safety of our products

• To best serve our customers across all channels as they adapt to the shifting demands of consumers during the crisis

• To best position ourselves to emerge stronger when this crisis ends

We have deployed global and regional teams to monitor the rapidly evolving situation in each of our local markets and recommend risk mitigation actions; we have implemented travel restrictions; and we are following social distancing practices. Around the world, we are endeavoring to follow guidance from authorities and health officials including, but not limited to, checking the temperature of associates when entering our facilities, requiring associates to wear masks and other protective 
clothing as appropriate, and implementing additional cleaning and sanitization routines at system facilities. In addition, most office-based employees around the world are required to work remotely.

We are grateful to the people throughout the world who are providing essential services, keeping communities safe and ensuring access to food, medicine and many other essential goods. We have made contributions of money, products and materials to support relief efforts in impacted local communities across the globe.

During times of crisis, business continuity and adapting to the needs of our customers is critical. We have developed systemwide knowledge-sharing routines and processes which include the management of any supply chain challenges. As of the date of this filing, there has been no material impact and we do not foresee a material impact on our and our bottling partners' ability to manufacture or distribute our products. We are moving with speed to best serve our customers impacted by COVID-19. In 
partnership with our bottlers and retail customers, we are working to ensure adequate inventory levels in key channels while prioritizing core brands, key packages and consumer affordability. We are increasing investments in e-commerce to support retailer and meal delivery services, shifting toward package sizes that are fit-for-purpose for online sales, and shifting more consumer and trade promotions to digital.

Although we are experiencing a time of crisis, we are not losing sight of long-term opportunities for our business. We believe that we will come out of this situation a better and stronger company. We are leveraging the crisis as a catalyst to accelerate our strategy by focusing on the following: prioritizing stronger global brands across various consumer needs while, at the same time, doing a better job of nurturing and growing regional and scaled local brands; establishing a more disciplined 
innovation framework and increasing marketing effectiveness and efficiency; strengthening our revenue growth management capabilities; enhancing our system collaboration and capturing supply chain efficiencies; and investing in new capabilities and evolving our organization to support the accelerated strategy. In August 2020, the Company announced strategic steps to transform our organizational structure in an effort to better enable us to capture growth in the fast-changing marketplace. The 
Company is building a networked global organization designed to combine the power of scale with the deep knowledge required to win locally. These organizational changes will require a reallocation of resources, along with both voluntary and involuntary reductions of associates. Refer to Note 12 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about our strategic realignment initiatives.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Recoverability of Current and Noncurrent Assets

Our Company faces many uncertainties and risks related to various economic, political and regulatory environments in the countries in which we operate, particularly in developing and emerging markets. Refer to the heading "Item 1A. Risk Factors" in Part I and "Our Business - Challenges and Risks" in 