Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

When used in this report, the terms "The Coca-Cola Company," "Company," "we," "us" and "our" mean The Coca-Cola Company and all entities included in our condensed consolidated financial statements.

During the three months endedMarch 27, 2020, the effects of a novel strain of coronavirus ("COVID-19") pandemic and the related actions by governments around the world to attempt to contain the spread of the virus have impacted our business globally. In particular, the outbreak and preventive measures taken to contain COVID-19 negatively impacted our unit case volume and our price, product and geographic mix in all of our operating segments, primarily due to unfavorable channel and product mix 
as consumer demand has shifted to more at-home consumption versus away from home. Our worldwide concentrate sales volume was approximately 1 point ahead of unit case sales volume as a result of bottler inventory build primarily related to the uncertainty associated with COVID-19.

In response to the COVID-19 outbreak and business disruption, we have five priorities:

  To ensure the health and safety of Coca-Cola system employees  

  To support and make a difference in the communities we serve  

  To keep our brands in supply and to maintain the quality and safety of our products  

  To best serve our customers across all channels as they adapt to the shifting demands of consumers during the crisis  

  To best position ourselves to emerge strong when this crisis ends  

As of the date of this filing, we have activated our contingency plans. We have deployed global and regional teams to monitor the rapidly evolving situation and recommend risk mitigation actions; we have implemented travel restrictions; and we are following social distancing practices. Around the world, we are endeavoring to follow guidance from authorities and health officials including, but not limited to, checking the temperature of associates when entering our facilities, requiring 
associates to wear masks and other protective clothing as appropriate, and implementing additional cleaning and sanitization routines at system facilities. In addition, nearly all office-based employees around the world are required to work remotely.

We are grateful to the people throughout the world who are providing essential services, keeping communities safe and ensuring access to food, medicine and many other essential goods. We have made contributions of money, product and materials to support relief efforts in impacted local communities across the globe.

During times of crisis, business continuity and adapting to the needs of our customers is critical. We have developed systemwide knowledge-sharing routines and processes which include the management of any supply chain challenges. As of

the date of this filing, there has been no material impact and we do not foresee a material impact on our and our bottling partners' ability to manufacture or distribute our products. We are moving with speed to best serve our customers impacted by COVID-19. In partnership with our bottlers and retail customers, we are working to ensure adequate inventory levels in key channels while prioritizing core brands and key packages. We are increasing investments in e-commerce to support retailer and 
meal delivery services, shifting toward package sizes that are fit-for-purpose for online sales and shifting consumer and trade promotion to digital.

Although we are experiencing a time of crisis, we are not losing sight of long-term opportunities for our business. We believe that we will come out of this situation a better and stronger company by driving our long-term strategies, responding to changing consumer behavior and capitalizing on new opportunities created by the crisis.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Recoverability of Current and Noncurrent Assets

Our Company faces many uncertainties and risks related to various economic, political and regulatory environments in the countries in which we operate, particularly in developing and emerging markets. Refer to the heading "Item 1A. Risk Factors" in Part I and "Our Business - Challenges and Risks" in 