Item 2.      Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

Forward-Looking Statements

Certain statements in this report, other than purely historical information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to our business plans, objectives, and expected operating results, and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements may 
appear throughout this report, including, without limitation, the following sections: “Management's Discussion and Analysis,” “Risk Factors,” and "Notes 4 and 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements." These forward-looking statements generally are identified by the words “believe,” “project,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “intend,” “strategy,” “future,” “opportunity,” “plan,” “may,” “should,” “will,” “would,” “will be,” “will continue,” “will likely result,” and similar expressions. 
Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions, which are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information, future events or otherwise, except to the extent required by law.

Risks and uncertainties to which our forward-looking statements are subject include, without limitation: (1) the ability to successfully manage global financial risks, including foreign currency fluctuations, currency exchange or pricing controls and localized volatility; (2) the ability to successfully manage local, regional or global economic volatility, including reduced market growth rates, and to generate sufficient income and cash flow to allow the Company to affect the expected share 
repurchases and dividend payments; (3) the ability to manage disruptions in credit markets or changes to our credit rating; (4) the ability to maintain key manufacturing and supply arrangements (including execution of supply chain optimizations and sole supplier and sole manufacturing plant arrangements) and to manage disruption of business due to factors outside of our control, such as natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, or disease outbreaks; (5) the ability to successfully manage cost
fluctuations and pressures, including prices of commodities and raw materials, and costs of labor, transportation, energy, pension and healthcare; (6) the ability to stay on the leading edge of innovation, obtain necessary intellectual property protections and successfully respond to changing consumer habits and technological advances attained by, and patents granted to, competitors; (7) the ability to compete with our local and global competitors in new and existing sales channels, including by
successfully responding to competitive factors such as prices, promotional incentives and trade terms for products; (8) the ability to manage and maintain key customer relationships; (9) the ability to protect our reputation and brand equity by successfully managing real or perceived issues, including concerns about safety, quality, ingredients, efficacy or similar matters that may arise; (10) the ability to successfully manage the financial, legal, reputational and operational risk associated 
with third-party relationships, such as our suppliers, contract manufacturers, distributors, contractors and external business partners; (11) the ability to rely on and maintain key company and third party information and operational technology systems, networks and services, and maintain the security and functionality of such systems, networks and services and the data contained therein; (12) the ability to successfully manage uncertainties related to changing political conditions (including 
the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union) and potential implications such as exchange rate fluctuations and market contraction; (13) the ability to successfully manage regulatory and legal requirements and matters (including, without limitation, those laws and regulations involving product liability, product and packaging composition, intellectual property, labor and employment, antitrust, data protection, tax, environmental, and accounting and financial reporting) and to resolve 
pending matters within current estimates; (14) the ability to manage changes in applicable tax laws and regulations including maintaining our intended tax treatment of divestiture transactions; (15) the ability to successfully manage our ongoing acquisition, divestiture and joint venture activities, in each case to achieve the Company’s overall business strategy and financial objectives, without impacting the delivery of base business objectives; (16) the ability to successfully achieve 
productivity improvements and cost savings and manage ongoing organizational changes, while successfully identifying, developing and retaining key employees, including in key growth markets where the availability of skilled or experienced employees may be limited; and (17) the ability to successfully manage the demand, supply, and operational challenges associated with a disease outbreak, including epidemics, pandemics, or similar widespread public health concerns (including the novel 
coronavirus, COVID-19, outbreak). A detailed discussion of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from those projected herein, is included in the section titled "Economic Conditions and Uncertainties" and the section titled "Risk Factors" (Part II, Item 1A) of this Form 10-Q.

The purpose of Management's Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) is to provide an understanding of Procter & Gamble's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows by focusing on changes in certain key measures from year to year. The MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes.

The MD&A is organized in the following sections:

• Overview

•Summary of Results - Three Months Ended September 30, 2020

• Economic Conditions and Uncertainties

•Results of Operations - Three Months Ended September 30, 2020

•Business Segment Discussion - Three Months Ended September 30, 2020

• Liquidity and Capital Resources

•Reconciliation of Measures Not Defined by U.S. GAAP

Throughout the MD&A, we refer to measures used by management to evaluate performance, including unit volume growth, net sales and net earnings. We also refer to a number of financial measures that are not defined under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP), consisting of organic sales growth, core net earnings per share (Core EPS), adjusted free cash flow and adjusted free cash flow productivity. The explanation at the end of the MD&A provides the 
definition of these non-GAAP measures, details on the use and the derivation of these measures, as well as reconciliations to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measures.

Management also uses certain market share and market consumption estimates to evaluate performance relative to competition despite some limitations on the availability and comparability of share and consumption information. References to market share and market consumption in the MD&A are based on a combination of vendor purchased traditional brick-and-mortar and online data in key markets as well as internal estimates. All market share references represent the percentage of sales of our 
products in dollar terms on a constant currency basis, relative to all product sales in the category. The Company measures fiscal year to date market shares through the most recent period for which market share data is available, which typically reflects a lag time of one or two months as compared to the end of the reporting period. Management also uses unit volume growth to evaluate and explain drivers of changes in net sales. Organic volume growth reflects year-over-year changes in unit volume
excluding the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures and certain one-time items if applicable and is used to explain changes in organic sales.

OVERVIEW

P&G is a global leader in the fast-moving consumer goods industry, focused on providing branded consumer packaged goods of superior quality and value to our consumers around the world. Our products are sold in more than 180 countries and territories, primarily through mass merchandisers, e-commerce, grocery stores, membership club stores, drug stores, department stores, distributors, wholesalers, baby stores, specialty beauty stores (including airport duty-free stores), high-frequency stores, 
pharmacies, electronics stores and professional channels. We also sell direct to consumers. We have on-the-ground operations in approximately 70 countries.

Our market environment is highly competitive with global, regional and local competitors. In many of the markets and industry segments in which we sell our products, we compete against other branded products as well as retailers' private-label brands. Additionally, many of the product segments in which we compete are differentiated by price tiers (referred to as super-premium, premium, mid-tier and value-tier products). We believe we are well positioned in the industry segments and markets in 
which we operate, often holding a leadership or significant market share position.

The table below provides detail on our reportable segments, including the product categories and brand composition within each segment.

  Reportable Segments               Product Categories (Sub-Categories)                                                                                                       Major Brands                                                                                                                                                                                             
  Beauty                            Hair Care ( Conditioner, Shampoo, Styling Aids, Treatments)                                                                               Head & Shoulders, Herbal Essences, Pantene, Rejoice                                                                                                                                                      
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
                                    Skin and Personal Care ( Antiperspirant and Deodorant, Personal Cleansing, Skin Care)                                                     Olay, Old Spice, Safeguard, Secret, SK-II                                                                                                                                                                
  Grooming                          Grooming (1) (Shave Care - Female Blades & Razors, Male Blades & Razors, Pre- and Post-Shave Products, Other Shave Care; Appliances)      Braun, Gillette, Venus                                                                                                                                                                                   
  Health Care                       Oral Care ( Toothbrushes, Toothpaste, Other Oral Care)                                                                                    Crest, Oral-B                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                              Personal Health Care ( Gastrointestinal, Rapid Diagnostics, Respiratory, Vitamins/Minerals/Supplements, Pain Relief, Other Personal Health Care)      Metamucil, Neurobion, Pepto-Bismol, Vicks          
  Fabric & Home Care                Fabric Care ( Fabric Enhancers, Laundry Additives, Laundry Detergents)                                                                    Ariel, Downy, Gain, Tide                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                              Home Care ( Air Care, Dish Care, P&G Professional, Surface Care)                                                                                      Cascade, Dawn, Fairy, Febreze, Mr. Clean, Swiffer  
  Baby, Feminine & Family Care      Baby Care ( Baby Wipes, Taped Diapers and Pants)                                                                                          Luvs, Pampers                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                              Feminine Care ( Adult Incontinence, Feminine Care)                                                                                                    Always, Always Discreet, Tampax                    
                                                                                                                                                                              Family Care ( Paper Towels, Tissues, Toilet Paper)                                                                                                    Bounty, Charmin, Puffs                             

(1) The Grooming product category is comprised of the Shave Care and Appliances operating segments.

The following table provides the percentage of net sales and net earnings by reportable business segment for the three months ended September 30, 2020 (excluding net sales and net earnings in Corporate):

                                    Three Months Ended September 30, 2020                    
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
                                                                Net Sales      Net Earnings  
  Beauty                                                              20%               23%  
  Grooming                                                             8%                8%  
  Health Care                                                         13%               13%  
  Fabric & Home Care                                                  34%               32%  
  Baby, Feminine & Family Care                                        25%               24%  
  Total Company                                                      100%              100%  

SUMMARY OF RESULTS

Following are highlights of results for the three months ended September 30, 2020 versus the three months ended September 30, 2019:

• Net sales increased 9% to $19.3 billion, driven by a mid-teens increase in Fabric & Home Care, a double digit increase in Health Care, a high single digits increase in Beauty, a mid-single digits increase in Grooming and a low single digits increase in Baby, Feminine & Family Care. Organic sales, which exclude the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange, also increased 9%. Organic sales increased mid-teens in Fabric & Home Care, increased double digits in Health Care, 
increased high single digits in Beauty and increased mid-single digits in Grooming and in Baby, Feminine & Family Care.

• Net earnings were $4.3 billion, an increase of $691 million or 19% versus the prior year period due to the increase in net sales and an increase in operating margins, partially offset by an increase in the current period income tax rate.

• Net earnings attributable to Procter & Gamble increased $684 million or 19% versus the prior year period to $4.3 billion.

• Diluted net earnings per share (EPS) increased 20% to $1.63 due primarily to the increase in net earnings.

• Diluted net earnings per share increased 19% versus the prior year Core net earnings per share which excludes incremental restructuring charges in the base period.

• Operating cash flow was $4.7 billion. Adjusted free cash flow, which is operating cash flow less capital expenditures and certain other impacts, was $4.1 billion. Adjusted free cash flow productivity was 95%.

ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND UNCERTAINTIES

Global Economic Conditions. Our products are sold in numerous countries across North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia and Africa with more than half our sales generated outside the United States. As such, we are exposed to and impacted by global macro-economic factors, U.S. and foreign government policies and foreign exchange fluctuations. Current global economic conditions are highly volatile due to the COVID-19 pandemic, resulting in both market size contractions in certain countries due 
to economic slowdowns and government restrictions on movement, as well as market size increases in certain countries due to pantry loading and increased consumption of household cleaning and personal health and hygiene products by consumers. Other macro-economic factors also remain dynamic, and any causes of market size contraction, such as reduced GDP in commodity-dependent economies, greater political unrest or instability in the Middle East, Central & Eastern Europe, certain Latin American 
markets, the Hong Kong market in Greater China and the Korean peninsula and economic uncertainty related to the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union, could reduce our sales or erode our operating margin, in either case reducing our net earnings and cash flows.

Changes in Costs. Our costs are subject to fluctuations, particularly due to changes in commodity prices, transportation costs and our own productivity efforts. We have significant exposures to certain commodities, in particular, certain oil-derived materials like resins and paper-based materials like pulp, and volatility in the market price of these commodity input materials has a direct impact on our costs. Disruptions in our manufacturing, supply and distribution operations due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic may also impact our costs. If we are unable to manage these impacts through pricing actions, cost savings projects and sourcing decisions, as well as through consistent productivity improvements, it may adversely impact our gross margin, operating margin, net earnings and cash flows. Sales could also be adversely impacted following pricing actions if there is a negative impact on consumption of our products. We strive to implement, achieve and sustain cost improvement plans, 
including outsourcing projects, supply chain optimization and general overhead and workforce optimization. In fiscal 2017, we communicated specific elements of a multi-year cost reduction program which is resulting in targeted enrollment reductions and other savings. If we are not successful in executing and sustaining these changes, there could be a negative impact on our gross margin, operating margin, net earnings and cash flows.

Foreign Exchange. We have both translation and transaction exposure to the fluctuation of exchange rates. Translation exposures relate to exchange rate impacts of measuring income statements of foreign subsidiaries that do not use the U.S. dollar as their functional currency. Transaction exposures relate to 1) the impact from input costs that are denominated in a currency other than the local reporting currency and 2) the revaluation of transaction-related working capital balances denominated in
currencies other than the functional currency. In the past two fiscal years, as well as the current year, the U.S. dollar has strengthened versus a number of foreign currencies, leading to lower sales and earnings from these foreign exchange impacts. Certain countries experiencing significant exchange rate fluctuations, like Argentina, Brazil, Russia Turkey and the European Union have previously had, and could in the future have, a significant impact on our sales, costs and net earnings. 
Increased pricing in response to certain fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may offset portions of the currency impacts but could also have a negative impact on consumption of our products, which would affect our sales, gross margin, operating margin, net earnings and cash flows.

Government Policies. Our net earnings could be affected by changes in U.S. or foreign government tax policies, for example, any regulatory guidance issued as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted in December 2017 (the U.S. Tax Act) and the current work being led by the OECD for the G20 focused on "Addressing the Challenges of the Digitalization of the Economy." The breadth of this project extends beyond pure digital businesses and is likely to impact all multinational businesses by 
redefining jurisdictional taxation rights. Further, our sales, net earnings and cash flows may be impacted by U.S. and foreign government policies to manage the COVID-19 pandemic, such as movement restrictions or site closures. Additionally, we attempt to carefully manage our debt, currency and other exposures in certain countries with currency exchange, import authorization and pricing controls, such as Nigeria, Algeria, Egypt, Argentina and Turkey. Further, our sales, net earnings and cash 
flows could be affected by changes to international trade agreements in North America and elsewhere, including increases of import tariffs, both currently effective and future potential changes. Changes in government policies in these areas might cause an increase or decrease in our sales, gross margin, operating margin, net earnings and cash flows.

COVID-19 Pandemic Disclosures

The Company’s priorities during the COVID-19 pandemic continue to be protecting the health and safety of our employees; maximizing the availability of products that help consumers with their health, hygiene and cleaning needs; and using our employees’ talents and our resources to help society meet and overcome the current challenges. Because the Company sells products that are essential to the daily lives of consumers, the COVID-19 pandemic has not had a materially negative impact to our 
consolidated sales, net earnings and cash flows. The pandemic has had both positive and negative impacts to our sales and net earnings during the quarter ended September 30, 2020. We have experienced a significant increase in demand and consumption of certain of our product categories (fabric, home cleaning and hygiene products) primarily in North America and Europe, caused in part by changing consumer habits, pantry stocking and retailer inventory replenishment, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, 
contributing to increases in sales, net earnings and cash flows. At the same time, we experienced a decrease in sales due to the economic slowdown and restricted consumer movements in certain regions, including IMEA (India,

Middle East and Africa), Asia Pacific and Latin America, in certain channels including travel retail and professional, and in certain of our beauty and grooming products. In the future, the pandemic may cause reduced demand for our products if it results in a recessionary global economic environment. Demand in certain countries in Latin America, Asia Pacific, and IMEA may be particularly susceptible to recession. It could also lead to volatility in consumer access to our products due to 
government actions impacting our ability to produce and ship products or impacting consumers’ movements and access to our products. We believe that over the long term, there will continue to be strong demand for categories in which we operate, particularly our products that deliver essential health, hygiene and cleaning benefits. However, the timing and extent of demand recovery in certain markets in Asia Pacific, IMEA and Latin America, the resumption of international travel, the timing and 
impact of potential consumer pantry destocking in markets including North America and Europe, and product demand volatility caused by future economic trends are unclear. Accordingly, there may be heightened volatility in sales, net earnings and cash flows during and subsequent to the duration of the pandemic. Our retail customers are also being impacted by the pandemic. Their success in addressing the issues and maintaining their operations could impact consumer access to, and as a result, sales
of our products.

Our ability to continue to operate without any significant negative impacts will in part depend on our ability to protect our employees and our supply chain. The Company has endeavored to follow actions recommended by governments and health authorities to protect our employees world-wide, with particular measures in place for those working in our plants and distribution facilities. We have also worked closely with local and national officials to keep our manufacturing facilities open due to the 
essential nature of the majority of our products. We have been able to broadly maintain our operations, but we have experienced some disruption in our supply chain in certain markets in Asia Pacific and IMEA due primarily to the restriction of employee movements as well as increased transportation and manufacturing costs. We intend to continue to work with government authorities and implement our employee safety measures to ensure that we are able to continue manufacturing and distributing our 
products during the pandemic. However, uncertainty resulting from the pandemic could result in an unforeseen disruption to our supply chain (for example a closure of a key manufacturing or distribution facility or the inability of a key material or transportation supplier to source and transport materials) that could impact our operations.

Because the pandemic has not had a material negative impact on our operations or demand for our products and resulting sales and net earnings, it has also not negatively impacted the Company’s liquidity position. We continue to generate operating cash flows to meet our short-term liquidity needs, and we expect to maintain access to the capital markets enabled by our strong short- and long-term credit ratings. We have also not observed any material impairments of our assets or a significant 
change in the fair value of assets due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

For additional information on risk factors that could impact our results, please refer to “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of the Company's Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - Three Months Ended September 30, 2020

The following discussion provides a review of results for the three months ended September 30, 2020 versus the three months ended September 30, 2019.

  Amounts in millions, except per share amounts                                 2020         2019             % Chg  
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Net sales                                                                  $19,318      $17,798                9%  
  Operating income                                                             5,281        4,290               23%  
  Net earnings                                                                 4,308        3,617               19%  
  Net earnings attributable to Procter & Gamble                                4,277        3,593               19%  
  Diluted net earnings per common share                                         1.63         1.36               20%  
  Core net earnings per common share                                            1.63         1.37               19%  
  COMPARISONS AS A PERCENTAGE OF NET SALES                                      2020         2019      Basis Pt Chg  
  Gross margin                                                                 52.7%        51.0%               170  
  Selling, general & administrative expense                                    25.3%        26.9%             (160)  
  Operating income                                                             27.3%        24.1%               320  
  Earnings before income taxes                                                 27.4%        24.4%               300  
  Net earnings                                                                 22.3%        20.3%               200  
  Net earnings attributable to Procter & Gamble                                22.1%        20.2%               190  

Net Sales

Net sales for the quarter increased 9% to $19.3 billion on a 7% increase in unit volume. Increased pricing had a 1% positive impact to net sales. Mix had a 1% positive impact to net sales, driven by the disproportionate growth of the North America region and the Home Care, Personal Care, Health Care and Appliances businesses all of which have higher than company-average selling prices. Foreign exchange had a negative 1% impact on net sales. Excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures 
and foreign exchange, organic sales also increased 9% on a 7% increase in organic volume. Net sales increased mid-teens in Fabric & Home Care, increased double digits in Health Care, increased high single digits in Beauty, increased mid-single digits in Grooming and increased low single digits in Baby, Feminine & Family Care. On a regional basis, volume increased mid-teens in North America driven by innovation, increased demand and retailer inventory rebuild, particularly in household cleaning, 
health care and personal hygiene products due in part to the COVID-19 pandemic. Volume increased high single digits in Greater China, increased mid-single digits in IMEA and Latin America and increased low single digits in Europe. These increases were partially offset by a low single digits volume decrease in Asia Pacific primarily due to the base period inventory build by retailers in Japan in advance of a VAT increase.

                                    Net Sales Change Drivers 2020 vs. 2019 (Three Months Ended September 30) (1)                                                                                                
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
                                                                         Volume with Acquisitions & Divestitures      Volume Excluding Acquisitions & Divestitures      Foreign Exchange      Net Sales Growth  
  Beauty                                                                                                      7%                                                7%                  (1)%                    7%  
  Grooming                                                                                                    5%                                                5%                  (2)%                    5%  
  Health Care                                                                                                 9%                                                9%                  (1)%                   11%  
  Fabric & Home Care                                                                                         10%                                               10%                    —%                   14%  
  Baby, Feminine & Family Care                                                                                3%                                                3%                  (1)%                    3%  
  Total Company                                                                                               7%                                                7%                  (1)%                    9%  

(1) Net sales percentage changes are approximations based on quantitative formulas that are consistently applied.

(2) Other includes the sales mix impact from acquisitions and divestitures and rounding impacts necessary to reconcile volume to net sales.

Operating Costs

Gross margin increased 170 basis points to 52.7% of net sales for the quarter. Gross margin benefited from:

•120 basis points of gross manufacturing cost savings projects (100 basis points net of product and packaging reinvestments),

•70 basis points of lower commodity costs,

•40 basis points of help from higher pricing,

•30 basis points of help due to higher restructuring costs in the base period and

•20 basis points of help from other impacts

These benefits were partially offset by a 60 basis point decline from unfavorable mix (due to the disproportionate growth of Home Care and Appliances categories which have lower than company average margins, as well as mix within segments due to the growth of lower margin product forms and large sizes in certain categories) and a 30 basis-point decline from unfavorable foreign exchange.

Total SG&A spending increased 2% to $4.9 billion primarily due to increases in marketing spending. SG&A as a percentage of net sales decreased 160 basis points to 25.3% due to a reduction in marketing spending and overhead costs as a percentage of net sales. Marketing spending as a percentage of net sales decreased 50 basis points due to the positive scale impacts of the net sales increase and savings in agency compensation, production costs and advertising spending, partially offset by 
reinvestments in media. Overhead costs as a percentage of net sales declined 100 basis points due to the positive scale impacts of the net sales increase and productivity savings, partially offset by inflation and other cost increases. Other net operating costs as a percentage of net sales was unchanged. Productivity-driven cost savings delivered 110 basis points of benefit to SG&A as a percentage of net sales.

Non-Operating Expenses and Income

Interest expense was $136 million for the quarter, an increase of $28 million versus the prior year period due to an increase in average debt balances. Interest income was $10 million for the quarter, a $48 million decrease versus the prior year period due to lower average cash and investment securities balances and reduced U.S. interest rates. Other non-operating income was $142 million, an increase of $39 million due to gains from minor brand divestitures and an increase in net non-operating 
benefits on defined benefit retirement plans caused by annual actuarial assumption updates.

Income Taxes

For the three months ended September 30, 2020, the effective tax rate increased 200 basis points versus the prior year period to 18.7% due to:

• a 120 basis-point increase related to the prior year tax benefit arising from transactions to simplify our legal entity structure and

• a 140 basis-point increase from unfavorable impacts from geographic mix of current year earnings, caused primarily by disproportionately higher sales and earnings in the U.S.

These increases are partially offset by:

• a 10 basis-point decrease from discrete impacts related to uncertain tax positions (5 basis-point unfavorable impact in the current year versus a 15 basis-point unfavorable impact in the prior year period) and

• a 50 basis-point decrease from higher excess tax benefits on share-based compensation (250 basis-point reduction in the current period versus 200 basis-point reduction in the prior year period).

Net Earnings

Operating income increased $991 million, or 23% to $5.3 billion for the quarter, due to the net sales increase, the increase in gross margin and the decrease in SG&A as a percentage of sales, all of which are described above. Net earnings increased $691 million or 19% to $4.3 billion primarily due to the increase in operating income, partially offset by the increase in the effective tax rate. Foreign exchange had a negative impact of approximately $100 million on net earnings for the quarter, 
including both transactional charges and translational impacts from converting earnings from foreign subsidiaries to U.S. dollars. Net earnings attributable to Procter & Gamble increased $684 million or 19% to $4.3 billion for the quarter. Diluted net earnings per share increased 20% to $1.63 versus the base period diluted net EPS and increased 19% versus the base period Core EPS which represents diluted net earnings per share excluding incremental restructuring charges in the base period 
related to our productivity and cost savings plans.

BUSINESS SEGMENT DISCUSSION - Three Months Ended September 30, 2020

The following discussion provides a review of results by reportable business segment. Analysis of the results for the three month period ended September 30, 2020 is provided based on a comparison to the same three month period ended September 30, 2019. The primary financial measures used to evaluate segment performance are net sales and net earnings. The table below provides supplemental information on net sales and net earnings by reportable business segment for the three months ended September
30, 2020 versus the comparable prior year period (dollar amounts in millions):

                                                % Change Versus Year Ago      Earnings/(Loss) Before Income Taxes                 % Change Versus Year Ago      Net Earnings      % Change Versus Year Ago  
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Beauty                             3,786                             7      $                                        1,228      12                            $                                       12  
  Grooming                           1,601                             5      426                                                 —                             355                                      1  
  Health Care                        2,471                            11      679                                                 26                            525                                     31  
  Fabric & Home Care                 6,644                            14                                               1,743      30                                                                    31  
  Baby, Feminine & Family Care       4,723                             3                                               1,318      16                                                                    16  
  Corporate                                                          N/A      (97)                                                N/A                           93                                     N/A  
  Total Company                     19,318                             9      $                                        5,297      22                            $                                       19  

Beauty

Three months ended September 30, 2020 compared with three months ended September 30, 2019

Beauty net sales increased 7% to $3.8 billion during the first fiscal quarter on a 7% increase in unit volume. Higher pricing increased net sales by 1%. Unfavorable foreign exchange impacts reduced net sales by 1%. Organic sales increased 7%. Global market share of the Beauty segment decreased 0.4 points.

• Hair Care net sales increased mid-single digits, due to a mid-single digit increase in volumes and increased pricing, partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange impacts. Organic sales increased high single digits. The volume increase was driven by a double digits increase in Greater China, a high single digits increase in North America, a mid-single digits increase in Latin America and low single digits increases in Asia Pacific and IMEA due to innovation, increased demand following 
pandemic-related shutdowns and inventory restocking. Global market share of the Hair Care category decreased slightly.

• Skin and Personal Care net sales increased high single digits, due to a double digit increase in volumes, partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange and unfavorable mix impacts. Organic sales also increased high single digits. Volume grew more than 20% in Greater China, grew double digits in Asia Pacific and grew high single digits in North America driven by innovation and increased consumption due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Global market share of the Skin and Personal Care category 
decreased slightly.

Net earnings increased 12% to $976 million due to the increase in net sales and a 120 basis-point increase in net earnings margin. The net earnings margin increased due to a reduction in SG&A as a percentage of net sales partially offset by a reduction in gross margin and an increase in tax rates due to unfavorable geographic mix of earnings. The gross margin decrease was primarily driven by the negative impacts of unfavorable mix, due to the relatively lower global growth of the super-premium 
SKII brand, partially offset by increased pricing. The decrease in SG&A as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to the positive scale impacts of the net sales increase and reduced marketing spending.

Grooming

Three months ended September 30, 2020 compared with three months ended September 30, 2019

Grooming net sales increased 5% to $1.6 billion during the first fiscal quarter on a 5% increase in unit volume. Unfavorable foreign exchange had a negative 2% impact on net sales. Pricing had a positive 2% impact on net sales. Organic sales increased 6%. Global market share of the Grooming segment decreased 1.8 points.

• Shave Care net sales decreased low single digits as a low single digit increase in volume, was more than offset by unfavorable foreign exchange impacts and unfavorable mix impact due to the disproportionate growth of lower priced products in IMEA. Organic sales were unchanged. Volume increased more than 20% in IMEA and increased low single digits in North America and Latin America due to product innovation and increased distribution in certain markets. This was partially offset by mid-single 
digits decreases in Europe and Asia Pacific primarily due to pandemic-related consumption decline. Global market share of the Shave Care category decreased more than half a point.

• Appliances net sales increased more than 40% primarily due to a volume increase of more than 30%. Organic sales increased more than 30%. Volume increased in all regions led by more than a 50% increase in North America, more than a 40% increase in Europe and a high-teens increase in Asia Pacific due to innovation and increased consumption of at-home

grooming and styling products driven by the pandemic. Global market share of the Appliances category increased more than a point.

Net earnings increased 1% to $355 million due to the increase in net sales partially offset by a 90 basis-point decrease in net earnings margin. The net earnings margin declined primarily due to a decrease in gross margin, partially offset by a reduction in SG&A as a percentage of net sales. Gross margin decreased due to the negative impact of unfavorable mix (due to the disproportionate growth of IMEA, which has lower than segment average margins) and unfavorable foreign exchange impacts. SG&A 
as a percentage of net sales decreased due to productivity savings and the positive scale impacts of the net sales increase, partially offset by a favorable legal settlement in the base period.

Health Care

Three months ended September 30, 2020 compared with three months ended September 30, 2019

Health Care net sales increased 11% to $2.5 billion during the first fiscal quarter on a 9% increase in unit volume. Unfavorable foreign exchange impacts decreased net sales by 1%. Pricing had a 1% positive impact to net sales for the quarter. Favorable mix increased net sales by 2% due to the disproportionate growth of the North America region and power brush products both of which have higher than segment average selling prices. Organic sales increased 12%. Global market share of the Health 
Care segment increased 1.4 points.

• Oral Care net sales increased mid-teens due to a high single digit increase in volume, favorable mix impacts due to the disproportionate growth of North America and premium power brush products, and increased pricing partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange impacts. Organic sales also increased mid-teens. Volume grew in all regions, led by double digits growth in North America and IMEA and high single digits growth in Europe, Greater China and Latin America driven by innovation. Global
market share of the Oral Care category increased less than a point.

• Personal Health Care net sales increased high single digits versus the prior year period due to a high single digit increase in volume and increased pricing partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange impacts. Organic sales also increased high single digits. The volume increase was driven by double digits growth in North America, Europe, IMEA and Latin America and high single digits growth in Asia Pacific, driven by innovation and increased marketing spending. Global market share of the 
Personal Health Care category increased two points.

Net earnings increased 31% to $525 million, due to the increase in net sales and a 310 basis-points increase in net earnings margin. Net earnings margin increased due to an increase in gross margin, a decrease in SG&A as a percentage of net sales and a gain on a minor brand divestiture in the current period. The increase in gross margin was driven by the positive impacts of manufacturing cost savings and increased pricing, partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange impacts. SG&A as a 
percentage of net sales decreased primarily due to the positive scale benefits of the net sales increase and a reduction in other operating expenses due to costs related to the Merck OTC consumer healthcare acquisition in the base period.

Fabric & Home Care

Three months ended September 30, 2020 compared with three months ended September 30, 2019

Fabric & Home Care net sales increased 14% to $6.6 billion during the first fiscal quarter on an 10% increase in unit volume. Positive mix impacts increased net sales by 4% due to the disproportionate growth of the North America region and the Home Care category, which have higher than segment average prices. Pricing and foreign exchange had no net impact to net sales. Organic sales also increased 14%. Global market share of the Fabric & Home Care segment increased 1.2 points.

• Fabric Care net sales increased high single digits due to a high single digit increase in volume and positive mix impact due to the disproportionate growth of premium products and the North America region. Organic sales also increased high single digits. Increased volume was driven by high teens growth in North America, high single digits growth in Latin America, mid-single digits growth in Greater China and low single digits growth in Europe, all due to product innovation and consumption 
increases in certain markets related to the COVID-19 pandemic. This was partially offset by a high single digits decline in Asia Pacific, primarily due to the base period increase in retailer inventories prior to a VAT increase in Japan. Global market share of the Fabric Care category increased more than a point.

• Home Care net sales increased more than 30%, primarily due to a volume increase of more than 20%, a positive mix impact due to the disproportionate growth of premium products and the North America region and increased pricing. Organic sales also increased more than 30%. Volume increased in all regions led by more than 30% growth in North America, more than 20% growth in Europe, Latin America and IMEA and mid-teens growth in Asia Pacific all due to consumption increases related to the COVID-19 
pandemic, product innovation and to a lesser extent, retailer inventory restocking in the U.S. Global market share of the Home Care category increased more than a point.

Net earnings increased 31% to $1.3 billion due to the increase in net sales and a 270 basis-points increase in net earnings margin. The net earnings margin increase was due to an increase in gross margin and a decrease in SG&A as a percentage of sales. The gross margin increase was driven by manufacturing cost savings and a reduction in commodity costs, partially offset

by unfavorable foreign exchange impacts. SG&A as a percentage of net sales decreased primarily due to the positive scale benefits of the net sales increase.

Baby, Feminine & Family Care

Three months ended September 30, 2020 compared with three months ended September 30, 2019

Baby, Feminine & Family Care net sales increased 3% to $4.7 billion during the first fiscal quarter on a 3% increase in unit volume. Unfavorable foreign exchange impacts decreased net sales by 1%. Higher pricing increased net sales by 1%. Mix had no impact to net sales. Organic sales increased 4%. Global market share of the Baby, Feminine & Family Care segment decreased 0.4 points.

• Net sales in Baby Care decreased mid-single digits due to a mid-single digit decrease in volume and unfavorable foreign exchange impacts. Organic sales decreased low single digits. Volume decreased mid-teens in Latin America (due to market contraction), decreased double digits in Asia Pacific (due primarily to the base period increase in retailer inventories prior to a VAT increase in Japan) and IMEA (due to pandemic-related retailer inventory reductions and market contraction) and decreased 
high single digits in Greater China (primarily due to competitive activity and consumer pantry destocking). This was partially offset by mid-single digits growth in North America (due to consumption increase in certain products and pandemic-related retailer inventory restocking). Global market share of the Baby Care category decreased less than a point.

• Feminine Care net sales increased mid-single digits due to a low single digit increase in volume, increased pricing and positive mix impact due to the disproportionate growth of the North America region and premium products primarily in Greater China, partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange impacts. Organic sales increased high single digits. Volume increased over 20% in Asia Pacific due to a new launch in the adult incontinence category in Japan. Volume increased high single digits 
in North America (primarily due to pandemic-related trade inventory increases and innovation) and in IMEA (primarily due to market growth). This was partially offset by a mid-single digits decline in Greater China and a low single digits decline in Europe and Latin America primarily due to the COVID-19 related consumption declines. Global market share of the Feminine Care category increased more than half a point.

• Net sales in Family Care, which is predominantly a North American business, increased double digits driven by a double digit increase in volumes and increased pricing driven by lower consumer promotions, partially offset by unfavorable mix impact due to the disproportionate growth of larger pack sizes. Organic sales also increased double digits. The volume increase was driven by COVID-19 related consumption increase and to a lesser extent retailer inventory restocking. North America share of 
the Family Care category decreased a point.

Net earnings increased 16% to $1.0 billion due to the increase in net sales and a 230 basis-point increase in net earnings margin. Net earnings margin increased primarily due to an increase in gross margin and a marginal decrease in SG&A as a percentage of net sales. Gross margin increased due to manufacturing cost savings and a reduction in commodity costs, partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange impacts. SG&A as a percentage of net sales decreased marginally due to the positive scale 
benefits of the net sales increase.

Corporate

Corporate includes certain operating and non-operating activities not allocated to specific business segments. These include: the incidental businesses managed at the corporate level; financing and investing activities; certain employee benefit costs; other general corporate items; the gains and losses related to certain divested brands and categories; and certain restructuring-type activities to maintain a competitive cost structure, including manufacturing and workforce optimization. Corporate
also includes reconciling items to adjust the accounting policies used in the reportable segments to U.S. GAAP. The most significant reconciling item relates to income taxes, to adjust from blended statutory rates that are reflected in the reportable segments to the overall Company effective tax rate.

Corporate net sales decreased $2 million to $93 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2020. Corporate net earnings improved by $3 million in the quarter as lower restructuring charges versus the base period and lower overheads spending were partially offset by higher interest expense, lower interest income and tax benefits in the base period, all of which have been described above.

Restructuring Program to deliver Productivity and Cost Savings

In 2012, the Company initiated a productivity and cost savings plan to reduce costs and better leverage scale in the areas of supply chain, research and development, marketing and overheads. The plan was designed to accelerate cost reductions by streamlining management decision making, manufacturing and other work processes to fund the Company's growth strategy. In 2017, the Company communicated specific elements of an additional multi-year productivity and cost savings program. As part of this 
plan, which was largely completed by the end of fiscal 2020, the Company incurred $1.5 billion in total before-tax restructuring costs across fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2020.

In fiscal 2021 and onwards, the Company expects to incur restructuring costs within the range of our historical ongoing level of $250 to $500 million before tax. In addition to our restructuring programs, we have additional ongoing savings efforts in our supply chain, marketing and overhead areas that have and are expected to continue to yield additional benefits to our operating margins.

Refer to Note 9 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more details on the restructuring program.

LIQUIDITY & CAPITAL RESOURCES

Operating Activities

We generated $4.7 billion of cash from operating activities fiscal year to date, an increase of $570 million versus the prior year period. Net earnings, adjusted for non-cash items (depreciation and amortization, share-based compensation expense, deferred income taxes and gain on sale of assets), generated $5.2 billion of operating cash flow. Working capital and other impacts used $510 million of cash in the period. Accounts receivable increased, using $825 million of cash, primarily due to 
sales growth. Days sales outstanding also increased about two days driven by a higher relative amount of sales towards the end of the quarter. Inventory increased, consuming $137 million of cash primarily due to holiday seasonality builds in certain categories and to support business growth. Accounts payable, accrued and other liabilities increased, generating $442 million of cash, primarily due to an increase in trade-related payables and accruals (approximately $650 million to support business
growth and to a lesser extent, extended payment terms to suppliers) and increased taxes payable caused by growth in earnings and the timing of estimated payments (approximately $440 million), partially offset by the payment of prior fiscal year-end incentive compensation and other salary-related accruals.

Investing Activities

Investing activities used $829 million of cash fiscal year to date primarily due to capital expenditures of $850 million.

Financing Activities

Our financing activities used $6.7 billion of net cash fiscal year to date. We used $2.0 billion for treasury stock purchases, $2.0 billion for dividends and $3.6 billion related to the reduction of short-term debt due primarily to the maturity of commercial paper. The exercise of stock options and other impacts generated $893 million of cash.

As of September 30, 2020, our current liabilities exceeded current assets by $4.0 billion. We have short- and long-term debt to meet our financing needs. Subsequent to September 30, 2020 the Company announced a plan to early retire approximately $2.3 billion of outstanding debt securities. The execution of the program is expected to be completed during the three months ended December 31, 2020 and the cash outlay would be funded through a combination of existing liquidity and potentially new debt
financing. We anticipate being able to support our short-term liquidity and operating needs largely through cash generated from operations. We have strong short- and long-term debt ratings that have enabled and should continue to enable us to refinance our debt as it becomes due at favorable rates in commercial paper and bond markets. In addition, we have agreements with a diverse group of financial institutions that, if needed, should provide sufficient credit funding to meet short-term 
financing requirements.

RECONCILIATION OF MEASURES NOT DEFINED BY U.S. GAAP

In accordance with the SEC's Regulation S-K Item 10(e), the following provides definitions of the non-GAAP measures and the reconciliation to the most closely related GAAP measures. We believe that these measures provide useful perspective on underlying business results and trends (i.e., trends excluding non-recurring or unusual items) and provide a supplemental measure of year-on-year results. The non-GAAP measures described below are used by management in making operating decisions, allocating
financial resources and for business strategy purposes. These measures may be useful to investors as they provide supplemental information about business performance and provide investors a view of our business results through the eyes of management. These measures are also used to evaluate senior management and are a factor in determining their at-risk compensation. These non-GAAP measures are not intended to be considered by the user in place of the related GAAP measure, but rather as 
supplemental information to our business results. These non-GAAP measures may not be the same as similar measures used by other companies due to possible differences in method and in the items or events being adjusted.

Organic sales growth: Organic sales growth is a non-GAAP measure of sales growth excluding the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange from year-over-year comparisons. We believe this measure provides investors with a supplemental understanding of underlying sales trends by providing sales growth on a consistent basis. This measure is used in assessing achievement of management goals for at-risk compensation.

Adjusted free cash flow: Adjusted free cash flow is defined as operating cash flow less capital spending and excluding payments for the transitional tax resulting from the U.S. Tax Act. Adjusted free cash flow represents the cash that the Company is able to generate after taking into account planned maintenance and asset expansion. Management views adjusted free cash flow as an important measure because it is one factor used in determining the amount of cash available for dividends, share 
repurchases, acquisitions and other discretionary investments.

Adjusted free cash flow productivity: Adjusted free cash flow productivity is defined as the ratio of adjusted free cash flow to net earnings. Management views adjusted free cash flow productivity as a useful measure to help investors understand P&G’s ability to generate cash. Adjusted free cash flow productivity is used by management in making operating decisions, allocating financial resources and for budget planning purposes. This measure is also used in assessing the achievement of 
management goals for at-risk compensation. The Company's long-term target is to generate annual adjusted free cash flow productivity at or above 90 percent.

Core EPS: Core earnings per share, or Core EPS, is a measure of the Company's diluted net earnings per share adjusted as indicated. Management views this non-GAAP measure as a useful supplemental measure of Company performance over time. This measure is also used when evaluating senior management in determining their at-risk compensation.

The Core earnings measures included in the following reconciliation tables refer to the equivalent GAAP measures adjusted as applicable for the following items:

Incremental Restructuring: The Company has historically had an ongoing level of restructuring activities. Such activities have resulted in ongoing annual restructuring related charges of approximately $250 - $500 million before tax. Since 2012, the Company has had a strategic productivity and cost savings initiative that resulted in incremental restructuring charges. The adjustment to Core earnings includes only the restructuring costs above what we believe are the normal recurring level of 
restructuring costs. In fiscal 2021 and onwards, the Company expects to incur restructuring costs within our historical ongoing level.

We do not view the above item to be part of our sustainable results and its exclusion from Core earnings measures provides a more comparable measure of year-on-year results. This item is also excluded when evaluating senior management in determining their at-risk compensation.

Organic sales growth:

  Three Months Ended September 30, 2020      Net Sales Growth      Acquisition & Divestiture Impact/Other (1)      Organic Sales Growth  
  Beauty                                                   7%      (1)%                                                              7%  
  Grooming                                                 5%      (1)%                                                              6%  
  Health Care                                             11%      —%                                                               12%  
  Fabric & Home Care                                      14%      —%                                                               14%  
  Baby, Feminine & Family Care                             3%      —%                                                                4%  
  Total Company                                            9%      (1)%                                                              9%  

(1) Includes rounding impacts necessary to reconcile net sales to organic sales.

Adjusted free cash flow (dollar amounts in millions):

  Three Months Ended September 30, 2020                                                                                
  Operating Cash Flow                        Capital Spending      U.S. Tax Act Payments      Adjusted Free Cash Flow  
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  $4,739                                     $(850)                $225                       $4,114                   

Adjusted free cash flow productivity (dollar amounts in millions):

  Three Months Ended September 30, 2020                                                              
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Adjusted Free Cash Flow                    Net Earnings      Adjusted Free Cash Flow Productivity  
  $4,114                                     $4,308            95%                                   

                                                      Three Months Ended September 30, 2020                 Three Months Ended September 30, 2019                                                                               
                                                      AS REPORTED (GAAP)                                    AS REPORTED (GAAP)                                    INCREMENTAL RESTRUCTURING      ROUNDING      NON-GAAP (CORE)  
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES                                                                                                                                                                                 
  NET EARNINGS ATTRIBUTABLE TO P&G                                                               4,277                                                 3,593      31                             (1)                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Core EPS         
  DILUTED NET EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE (1)           $                                           1.63      $                                           1.36      $                              $             $                

(1) Diluted net earnings per share are calculated on Net earnings attributable to Procter & Gamble.

  CHANGE IN CURRENT YEAR REPORTED (GAAP) MEASURES VERSUS PRIOR YEAR NON-GAAP (CORE) MEASURES (1)          
  NET EARNINGS ATTRIBUTABLE TO P&G                                                                    18  
  EPS                                                                                                 19  

(1) Change versus year ago is calculated based on As Reported (GAAP) values for the three months ended September 30, 2020 versus the Non-GAAP (Core) values for the three months ended September 30, 2019.

  Item 3.      Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

There have been no material changes in the Company’s exposure to market risk since June 30, 2020. Additional information can be found in Note 7 - Risk Management Activities and Fair Value Measurements of the Consolidated Financial Statements.

  Item 4.      Controls and Procedures  
 ────────────────────────────────────────

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

The Company’s Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, David S. Taylor, and the Company’s Vice Chairman, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer, Jon R. Moeller, performed an evaluation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”)) as of the end of the period covered by this report. Messrs. Taylor and Moeller have concluded that the Company’s disclosure 
controls and procedures were effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is (1) recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms, and (2) accumulated and communicated to our management, including Messrs. Taylor and Moeller, to allow their timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the Company’s fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2020 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

