Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

You should read the following Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this report. Statements contained in this report may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Please refer to the section of this report under the heading “Cautionary Statement Regarding 
Forward-Looking Statements” for more information.

Overview

The following discussion and analysis provides information which we believe is relevant to an assessment and understanding of our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. The discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report and the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and the MD&A contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
fiscal year endedDecember 31, 2019. Except where the context indicates otherwise, the words “we,” “us,” “our,” “Dine Brands Global” and the “Company” refer to Dine Brands Global, Inc., together with its subsidiaries that are consolidated in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”).

Through various subsidiaries, we own, franchise and operate the Applebee's Neighborhood Grill & Bar®(“Applebee's”) concept in the bar and grill segment within the casual dining category of the restaurant industry and we own and franchise the International House of Pancakes®(“IHOP”) concept in the family dining category of the restaurant industry. References herein to Applebee's® and IHOP® restaurants are to these two restaurant concepts, whether operated by franchisees, area licensees and their 
sub-licensees (collectively, “area licensees”) or by us. With over 3,600 restaurants combined, the substantial majority of which are franchised, we believe we are one of the largest full-service restaurant companies in the world. The June 17, 2019 issue ofNation's Restaurant News reported IHOP was the largest family dining concept in terms of 2018 United States system-wide sales and Applebee's was the largest casual dining concept in terms of number of restaurants.

We identify our business segments based on the organizational units used by management to monitor performance and make operating decisions. We currently have five operating segments: Applebee's franchise operations, Applebee's company-operated restaurant operations, IHOP franchise operations, rental operations and financing operations. We have four reportable segments: franchise operations (an aggregation of Applebee's and IHOP franchise operations), company-operated restaurant operations, 
rental operations and financing operations. We consider these to be our reportable segments, regardless of whether any segment exceeds 10% of consolidated revenues, income before income tax provision or total assets.

Significant Recent Developments Regarding COVID-19

During March 2020, a global pandemic was declared by the World Health Organization related to the rapidly spreading outbreak of a novel strain of coronavirus, designated“ COVID-19. ” The pandemic has significantly impacted economic conditions in the United States, where the majority of our restaurants are located, as well as economic conditions globally. We first began to experience impacts from COVID-19 around the middle of March 2020, as international, federal, state and local governments 
began to react to the public health crisis by encouraging or requiring“ social distancing,” instituting shelter-in-place orders, and requiring, in varying degrees, reduced operating hours, restaurant dine-in limitations, capacity limitations or other restrictions that largely limited restaurants to take-out and delivery sales. The long-term impact of COVID-19 on world economies and on our business remains uncertain, the duration and scope of which cannot currently be predicted. Please refer to 
