ITEM 2 - MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

  We aggregate our reporting segments into three main businesses: (i) Tommy Hilfiger, which consists of the businesses we operate under our TOMMY HILFIGER trademarks; (ii) Calvin Klein, which con...  
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

OVERVIEW

The following discussion and analysis is intended to help you understand us, our operations and our financial performance. It should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes, which are included in the immediately preceding item of this report.

We are one of the largest global apparel companies in the world and, in March 2020, we marked our 100-year anniversary as a listed company on the New York Stock Exchange. We manage a diversified brand portfolio, including TOMMY HILFIGER, CALVIN KLEIN, Van Heusen, IZOD, ARROW, Warner’s, Olga, True&Co. and Geoffrey Beene. We had a perpetual license forSpeedo until April 6, 2020. Our brand portfolio also consists of various other owned, licensed and, to a lesser extent, private label brands.

Our business strategy is to position our brands to sell globally at various price points and in multiple channels of distribution. This enables us to offer products to a broad range of consumers, while minimizing competition among our brands and reducing our reliance on any one demographic group, product category, price point, distribution channel or region. We also license the use of our trademarks to third parties and joint ventures for product categories and in regions where we believe our 
licensees’ expertise can better serve our brands.

Our revenue was $9.9 billion in 2019, of which over 50% was generated outside of the United States. Our global lifestyle brands, TOMMY HILFIGER and CALVINKLEIN, together generated approximately 85% of our revenue.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

COVID-19 Pandemic Update

The COVID-19 pandemic has had, and is expected to continue to have, a significant adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows from operations in 2020.

Virtually all of our retail stores were temporarily closed for varying periods of time throughout the first quarter and into the second quarter of 2020 as a result of the pandemic. The majority of our retail stores had reopened by mid-June 2020 but have been operating on reduced hours and at reduced occupancy levels. Our brick and mortar wholesale customers and licensing partners also have experienced significant business disruptions as a result of the pandemic, with several of our North America
wholesale customers filing for bankruptcy. Most of our wholesale customers’ stores had reopened the majority of their locations across all regions by mid-June. However, due to the significant levels of inventory that remain in their stores, as well as lower traffic and consumer demand, there has been a sharp reduction in shipments to these customers and we expect this trend to continue for the balance of the year. Our digital channels, which have historically represented a less significant 
portion of our overall business, have experienced strong demand during the first half of the year across our traditional and pure play wholesale customers, as well as our own directly operated digital commerce businesses across all brand businesses and regions, and these favorable trends have continued into the third quarter.

The COVID-19 pandemic also has impacted some of our suppliers, including third-party manufacturers, logistics providers and other vendors. With some of our partners operating at reduced capacity, we continue to monitor for any potential delays or disruptions in our supply chain and will implement mitigation plans if needed.

Throughout the pandemic, our top priority has been to ensure the health and safety of our associates, consumers and business partners around the world. Accordingly, we have implemented health and safety measures to support high standards in our retail stores, office and distribution centers, including temporary closures, reduced occupancy levels, and social distancing and

sanitization measures, as well as changes to fitting room use in our stores. We have incurred additional costs in the second quarter of 2020 associated with these measures and expect such costs to increase in the second half of 2020.

We took the following actions, some of which are ongoing, to reduce our operating expenses in response to the pandemic: (i) reducing payroll costs, including temporary furloughs, salary and incentive compensation reductions, decreased working hours, and hiring freezes, as well as taking advantage of COVID-related government payroll subsidy programs primarily in international jurisdictions, (ii) eliminating or reducing discretionary and variable operating expenses, including marketing, travel, 
consulting services, and creative and design costs, and (iii) reducing rent expense through rent abatements negotiated with landlords for certain stores affected by temporary closures. In addition, we announced in July 2020 plans to streamline our North American operations to better align our business with the evolving retail landscape, including (i) a reduction in our North America office workforce by approximately 450 positions, or 12%, across all three brand businesses and corporate 
functions, which is expected to result in annual cost savings of approximately $80 million, and (ii) the exit from our Heritage Brands Retail business by mid-2021.

We have also taken actions to preserve liquidity and strengthen our financial flexibility. Please see the section entitled “Liquidity and Capital Resources” below for further discussion.

The impacts of COVID-19 resulted in an unprecedented decline in our revenue and earnings during the first half of 2020, including $962 million of pre-tax noncash impairment charges, primarily related to goodwill, as well as increases in our inventory and inventory-related reserves and our accounts receivable reserves of $61 million and $56 million, respectively.

While there is significant uncertainty as to the duration and extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, we expect the pandemic will continue to have a significant negative impact on our revenue and net income for the remainder of 2020. The ongoing economic impacts and health concerns associated with the pandemic are expected to continue to affect consumer behavior, spending levels, shopping preferences and tourism, and most likely will result in reduced traffic and consumer spending trends 
that adversely impact our financial position and results of operations.

Operations Overview

We generate net sales from (i) the wholesale distribution to retailers, franchisees, licensees and distributors of dress shirts, neckwear, sportswear (casual apparel), jeanswear, performance apparel, intimate apparel, underwear, swimwear, handbags, accessories, footwear and other related products under owned and licensed trademarks, including through digital commerce sites operated by our wholesale partners and pure play digital commerce retailers, and (ii) the sale of certain of these products 
through (a) approximately 1,810 Company-operated free-standing retail store locations worldwide under our TOMMY HILFIGER, CALVINKLEIN and certain of our heritage brands trademarks, (b) approximately 1,500 Company-operated shop-in-shop/concession locations worldwide under our TOMMY HILFIGER and CALVIN KLEIN trademarks, and (c) digital commerce sites in over 30 countries under our TOMMY HILFIGER and CALVIN KLEIN trademarks and in the United States through our directly operated digital commerce 
sites for True& Co., Van Heusen, IZOD and, until April 6, 2020, Speedo. We announced in July 2020 a plan to exit our Heritage Brands Retail business, which will result in the closing of approximately 160 Company-operated retail stores by mid-2021. Additionally, we generate royalty, advertising and other revenue from fees for licensing the use of our trademarks. We manage our operations through our operating divisions, which are presented as six reportable segments: (i) Tommy Hilfiger North 
America; (ii) Tommy Hilfiger International; (iii) Calvin Klein North America; (iv) Calvin Klein International; (v) Heritage Brands Wholesale; and (vi) Heritage Brands Retail.

We have entered into the following transactions, which impact our results of operations and comparability among the periods, including our full year 2020 expectations as compared to full year 2019, as discussed in the section entitled “Results of Operations” below:

• We announced on July 14, 2020 plans to streamline our North American operations to better align our business with the evolving retail landscape including (i) a reduction in our office workforce by approximately 450 positions, or 12%, across all three brand businesses and corporate functions (the “North America workforce reduction”), which is expected to result in annual cost savings of approximately $80 million, and (ii) the exit from our Heritage Brands Retail business by mid-2021. We 
recorded pre-tax costs of $51 million in the second quarter of 2020, including (i) $38 million related to the North America workforce reduction, primarily consisting of severance, and (ii) $12 million in connection with the planned exit from the Heritage Brands Retail business, consisting of $7 million of noncash asset impairments and $5 million of severance and other costs. We expect to incur additional pre-tax costs of approximately $40 million in connection with these actions, including (i) 
$2 million related to the North America workforce reduction, which is expected to be incurred during the remainder of 2020, and (ii) $38 million in connection with the planned exit from our Heritage Brands Retail business, primarily consisting of severance, accelerated amortization of lease assets and inventory markdowns, of which $21 million is expected to be incurred during the remainder of 2020 and $17 million is expected to be incurred in 2021. Please see Note 16, “Exit Activity Costs,” in 
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this report for further discussion.

• We entered into a definitive agreement on January 9, 2020 to sell our Speedo North America business to Pentland Group PLC (“Pentland”), the parent company of theSpeedo brand, and completed the sale of the business on April 6, 2020 for net proceeds of $169 million (the “Speedo transaction”). Upon the closing of the transaction, we deconsolidated the net assets of the Speedo North America business. We recorded a pre-tax noncash loss of $142 million in the fourth quarter of 2019 in connection 
with the then-pending Speedo transaction consisting of (i) a noncash impairment of our perpetual license right for the Speedo trademark and (ii) a noncash loss to reduce the carrying value of the business to its estimated fair value, less costs to sell. We recorded an additional pre-tax noncash loss of $3 million in the first quarter of 2020 upon the closing of the transaction, consisting of (i) a $6 million noncash loss resulting from the remeasurement of the loss recorded in the fourth quarter
of 2019, primarily due to changes to the net assets of the Speedo North America business subsequent to February 2, 2020, partially offset by (ii) a $3 million gain on our retirement plans. The net proceeds from the sale are subject to a final working capital adjustment based on the terms of the agreement and as such, the pre-tax noncash loss recorded in connection with the transaction may be subject to remeasurement in a future period. Please see Note 4, “Acquisitions and Divestitures,” in the 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this report for further discussion.

• We entered into agreements on July 3, 2019 to terminate early the licenses for the global Calvin Klein and Tommy Hilfiger North America socks and hosiery businesses (the “Socks and Hosiery transaction”) in order to consolidate the socks and hosiery business for all of our brands in the United States and Canada in a newly formed joint venture, PVH Legwear LLC (“PVH Legwear”), in which we own a 49% economic interest, and to bring in-house the international Calvin Klein socks and hosiery 
wholesale businesses. PVH Legwear was formed with a wholly owned subsidiary of our former Heritage Brands socks and hosiery licensee, and has licensed from us since December 2019 the rights to distribute and sellTOMMY HILFIGER, CALVIN KLEIN, IZOD, Van Heusen andWarner’s socks and hosiery in the United States and Canada. We recorded a pre-tax charge of $60 million in the second quarter of 2019 in connection with these agreements.

• We completed two acquisitions in the second quarter of 2019. The first acquisition, which closed on May 31, 2019, was to acquire the approximately 78% interest in Gazal Corporation Limited (“Gazal”) that we did not already own (the “Australia acquisition”). Prior to the closing, we, along with Gazal, jointly owned and managed a joint venture, PVH Brands Australia Pty. Limited (“PVH Australia”), which licensed and operated businesses under theTOMMY HILFIGER, CALVIN KLEIN andVan Heusen brands, 
along with other licensed and owned brands. PVH Australia came under our full control as a result of the acquisition and we now operate directly those businesses. The aggregate net purchase price for the shares acquired was $59 million, net of cash acquired and after taking into account the proceeds from the divestiture to a third party of an office building and warehouse owned by Gazal in June 2019. The second was our acquisition on July 1, 2019 of the Tommy Hilfiger retail business in Central 
and Southeast Asia from our previous licensee in that market (the “TH CSAP acquisition”) for $74 million, as a result of which we now operate directly the Tommy Hilfiger retail business in the Central and Southeast Asia market. Please see Note 4, “Acquisitions and Divestitures,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this report for further discussion.

In connection with the Australia and TH CSAP acquisitions, we recorded an aggregate net pre-tax gain of $83 million during 2019, including (i) a noncash gain of $113 million to write up our existing equity investments in Gazal and PVH Australia to fair value, partially offset by (ii) $21 million of costs, primarily consisting of noncash valuation adjustments and one-time expenses recorded on our equity investments in Gazal and PVH Australia prior to the Australia acquisition closing, and (iii) a
$9 million expense recorded in interest expense resulting from the remeasurement of our mandatorily redeemable non-controlling interest that was recognized in connection with the Australia acquisition. Of the $83 million aggregate net pre-tax gain that was recorded during 2019, $106 million was recorded during the twenty-six weeks ended August 4, 2019. We recorded a pre-tax expense of $1 million in the twenty-six weeks ended August 2, 2020 in interest expense resulting from the remeasurement of 
the mandatorily redeemable non-controlling interest that was recognized in connection with the Australia acquisition.

• We entered into a licensing agreement on May 30, 2019 with G-III Apparel Group, Ltd. (“G-III”) for the design, production and wholesale distribution ofCALVIN KLEIN JEANS women’s jeanswear collections in the United States and Canada (the “G-III license”), which resulted in the discontinuation of our directly operated Calvin Klein North America women’s jeanswear wholesale business in 2019.

• We closed ourTOMMY HILFIGER flagship and anchor stores in the United States (the “TH U.S. store closures”) in the first quarter of 2019 and recorded pre-tax costs of $55 million, primarily consisting of noncash lease asset impairments. Please see Note 12, “Fair Value Measurements,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this report for further discussion of the noncash lease asset impairments.

• We announced on January 10, 2019 a restructuring in connection with strategic changes for our Calvin Klein business (the “Calvin Klein restructuring”). The strategic changes included (i) the closure of theCALVIN KLEIN 205 W39 NYC brand (formerly Calvin Klein Collection), (ii) the closure of the flagship store on Madison Avenue in New York, New York, (iii) the restructuring of the Calvin Klein creative and design teams globally, and (iv) the consolidation of operations for the men’s Calvin 
Klein Sportswear and Calvin Klein Jeans businesses. All costs related to this restructuring were incurred by the end of 2019. We recorded pre-tax costs of $103 million during 2019 in connection with the Calvin Klein restructuring, consisting of a $30 million noncash lease asset impairment resulting from the closure of the flagship store on Madison Avenue in New York, New York, $26 million of contract termination and other costs, $26 million of severance, $13 million of inventory markdowns and $9
million of other noncash asset impairments, of which $99 million was incurred during the twenty-six weeks ended August 4, 2019.

Our Tommy Hilfiger and Calvin Klein businesses each have substantial international components that expose us to significant foreign exchange risk. Our Heritage Brands business also has international components but those components are not significant to the business. Our results of operations in local foreign currencies are translated into United States dollars using an average exchange rate over the representative period. Accordingly, our revenue is unfavorably impacted during times of a 
strengthening United States dollar against the foreign currencies in which we generate significant revenue and favorably impacted during times of a weakening United States dollar against those currencies. Our earnings are similarly affected by foreign currency translation in periods that we generate income. However, in periods that we generate losses, as is currently expected for the full year 2020, the opposite is true and our results will be favorably impacted by a strengthening United States 
dollar against the foreign currencies in which we generate losses and unfavorably impacted by a weakening United States dollar against those currencies. Over 50% of our 2019 revenue was subject to foreign currency translation. We currently expect foreign currency translation to have an immaterial impact on our revenue in 2020 as compared to 2019.

There is also a transactional impact on our financial results because inventory typically is purchased in United States dollars by our foreign subsidiaries. O ur results of operations w ill be unfavorably impacted during times of a strengthening United States dollar, as the increased local currency value of inventory results in a higher cost of goods in local currency when the goods are sold, and favorably impacted during times of a weakening United States dollar, as the decreased local currency
value of inventory results in a lower cost of goods in local currency when the goods are sold. We use foreign currency forward exchange contracts to hedge against a portion of the exposure related to this transactional impact. The contracts cover at least 70% of the projected inventory purchases in United States dollars by our foreign subsidiaries. These contracts are generally entered into 12 months in advance of the related inventory purchases. Therefore, the impact of fluctuations of the 
United States dollar on the cost of inventory purchases covered by these contracts may be realized in our results of operations in the year following their inception, as the underlying inventory hedged by the contracts is sold. The strengthening of the United States dollar against most major currencies in the latter part of 2018 and in 2019, particularly the euro, is expected to negatively impact our gross margin during 2020. Additionally, there is a transactional impact related to changes in 
selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses as a result of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We currently expect a negative transactional impact on our net income in 2020 as compared to 2019.

Further, we have exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates related to our €1.125 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes that are held in the United States. The strengthening of the United States dollar against the euro would require us to use a lower amount of our cash flows from operations to pay interest and make long-term debt repayments, whereas the weakening of the United States dollar against the euro would require us to use a greater amount of our cash flows from 
operations to pay interest and make long-term debt repayments. We designated the carrying amount of these senior notes issued by PVH Corp., a U.S.-based entity, as net investment hedges of our investments in certain of our foreign subsidiaries that use the euro as their functional currency. As a result, the remeasurement of these foreign currency borrowings at the end of each period is recorded in equity.

Retail comparable store sales refer to sales from Company-operated retail stores that have been open and operated by us for at least 12 months, as well as sales from Company-operated digital commerce sites for those businesses and regions that have operated the related digital commerce site for at least 12 months. Sales from retail stores and Company-operated digital commerce sites that are shut down during the year are excluded from the calculation of retail comparable store sales. Sales for 
retail stores that are relocated, materially altered in size or closed for a prolonged period of time and sales from Company-operated digital commerce sites that are materially altered are also excluded from the calculation of retail comparable store sales until such stores or sites have been in their new location or in their newly renovated state, as applicable, for at least 12 months. Retail comparable store sales are based on local currencies and comparable weeks. Due to the extensive 
temporary store closures resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, retail comparable store sales are not reported for the thirteen and twenty-six weeks ended August 2, 2020, as we do not believe this metric is currently meaningful.

SEASONALITY

Our business generally follows a seasonal pattern. Our wholesale businesses tend to generate higher levels of sales in the first and third quarters, while our retail businesses tend to generate higher levels of sales in the fourth quarter. Royalty, advertising and other revenue tends to be earned somewhat evenly throughout the year, although the third quarter tends to have the highest level of royalty revenue due to higher sales by licensees in advance of the holiday selling season. The COVID-19
pandemic has disrupted these patterns, however. We otherwise expect this seasonal pattern will generally continue. Working capital requirements vary throughout the year to support these seasonal patterns and business trends.

Due to the above seasonal factors, as well as the COVID-19 pandemic, our results of operations for the twenty-six weeks ended August 2, 2020 are not necessarily indicative of those for a full fiscal year.

Thirteen Weeks Ended August 2, 2020 Compared With Thirteen Weeks Ended August 4, 2019

Total Revenue

Total revenue in the second quarter of 2020 was $1.581 billion as compared to $2.364 billion in the second quarter of the prior year. The decrease in revenue of $784 million, or 33%, was due to the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business and included the aggregate effect of the following items:

• The reduction of an aggregate $306 million of revenue, or a 28% decrease over the prior year period, attributable to our Tommy Hilfiger International and Tommy Hilfiger North America segments. Tommy Hilfiger International segment revenue decreased 14%, with China showing positive results year over year. Revenue in our Tommy Hilfiger North America segment decreased 51%.

• The reduction of an aggregate $283 million of revenue, or a 32% decrease over the prior year period, attributable to our Calvin Klein International and Calvin Klein North America segments. Calvin Klein International segment revenue decreased 16%, with China showing positive results year over year. Revenue in our Calvin Klein North America segment decreased 51%.

• The reduction of an aggregate $194 million of revenue, or a 51% decrease compared to the prior year period, attributable to our Heritage Brands Retail and Heritage Brands Wholesale segments, which included a 16% decline resulting from the April 2020 sale of the Speedo North America business.

Our revenue in the second quarter of 2020 reflected a 40% decline in revenue through our wholesale distribution channel and a 24% decline in revenue through our retail distribution channel, which included an 87% increase in sales through our directly operated digital commerce businesses driven by strong growth across all brand businesses and regions.

Gross Profit

Gross profit is calculated as total revenue less cost of goods sold and gross margin is calculated as gross profit divided by total revenue. Included as cost of goods sold are costs associated with the production and procurement of product, such as inbound freight costs, purchasing and receiving costs and inspection costs. Also included as cost of goods sold are the amounts recognized on foreign currency forward exchange contracts as the underlying inventory hedged by such forward exchange 
contracts is sold. Warehousing and distribution expenses are included in SG&A expenses. All of our royalty, advertising and other revenue is included in gross profit because there is no cost of goods sold associated with such revenue. As a result, our gross profit may not be comparable to that of other entities.

Gross profit in the second quarter of 2020 was $883 million, or 55.9% of total revenue, as compared to $1.288 billion, or 54.5% of total revenue, in the second quarter of the prior year. The 140 basis point gross margin increase was primarily driven by (i) the absence in 2020 of inventory markdowns that were recorded in the second quarter of 2019 in connection with the Calvin Klein restructuring and (ii) the impact of a favorable change in revenue mix of our International and North America 
segments, as our International segments revenue is a larger proportion and generally carry higher gross margins, partially offset by (iii) the unfavorable impact of the stronger United States dollar on our international businesses that purchase inventory in United States dollars, particularly our European businesses, as the increased local currency value of inventory resulted in higher cost of goods in local currency when the goods were sold.

SG&A Expenses

SG&A expenses in the second quarter of 2020 were $882 million, or 55.8% of total revenue, as compared to $1.155 billion, or 48.8% of total revenue, in the second quarter of the prior year. The significant increase in SG&A expenses as a percentage of total revenue was principally attributable to (i) the deleveraging of expenses driven by the significant decline in revenue resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, (ii) costs incurred in connection with the planned exit from our Heritage Brands Retail 
business and the North America workforce reduction, (iii) additional accounts receivable reserves recorded as a result of the pandemic, and (iv) the impact of the change in revenue mix of our International and North America segments, as our International segments revenue is a larger proportion and these segments generally carry higher SG&A expenses as percentages of total revenue. These increases were partially offset by (i) a reduction in expenses as a result of the cost savings initiatives we 
implemented in April 2020, including temporary furloughs, salary and incentive compensation reductions, and lower discretionary spending, (ii) pandemic-related government payroll subsidy programs in international jurisdictions, as well as rent abatements negotiated with certain of our landlords, and (iii) the absence in 2020 of costs that were incurred in the second quarter of 2019 in connection with the Calvin Klein restructuring and the Socks and Hosiery transaction.

Non-Service Related Pension and Postretirement Income

Non-service related pension and postretirement income in the second quarter of 2020 was $1 million as compared to $2 million in the second quarter of the prior year. Please see Note 8, “Retirement and Benefit Plans,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this report for further discussion.

Other Noncash (Gain) Loss

We recorded a noncash gain of $113 million in the second quarter of 2019 in connection with the Australia acquisition. Please see Note 4, “Acquisitions and Divestitures,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this report for further discussion.

Equity in Net (Loss) Income of Unconsolidated Affiliates

The equity in net (loss) income of unconsolidated affiliates was a $(4) million loss in the second quarter of 2020 as compared to $1 million of income in the second quarter of the prior year. These amounts relate to our share of (loss) income from (i) our joint venture for theTOMMY HILFIGER, CALVIN KLEIN, Warner’s, Olga and Speedo brands in Mexico, (ii) our joint ventures for the TOMMY HILFIGER brand in India and Brazil, (iii) our joint venture for the CALVIN KLEIN brand in India, (iv) our PVH 
Legwear joint venture for the TOMMYHILFIGER, CALVIN KLEIN, IZOD, Van Heusen andWarner’s brands and other owned and licensed trademarks in the United States and Canada that began operations in December 2019, (v) PVH Australia (prior to acquiring it on May 31, 2019 through the Australia acquisition) and (iv) our investment in Gazal (prior to acquiring it on May 31, 2019 through the Australia acquisition). Also included in the prior year period was our share of the loss from our investment in Karl 
Lagerfeld Holding B.V. (“Karl Lagerfeld”). Please see Note 6, “Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this report for further discussion of our investment in Karl Lagerfeld.

The equity in net (loss) income for the second quarter of 2020 decreased as compared to the prior year period primarily due to (i) a reduction in income on our investments due to the negative impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our unconsolidated affiliates’ businesses, partially offset by (ii) the absence in 2020 of one-time expenses of $2 million recorded on our investments in Gazal and PVH Australia in the second quarter of 2019 prior to the closing of the Australia acquisition. Our 
investments in the continuing joint ventures are being accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Subsequent to the closing of the Australia acquisition, we began to consolidate the operations of Gazal and PVH Australia into our financial statements. Please see the section entitled “Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates” within “Liquidity and Capital Resources” below for further discussion.

Interest Expense, Net

Interest expense, net increased to $32 million in the second quarter of 2020 from $27 million in the second quarter of the prior year. Included in interest expense, net in the second quarter of 2020 is an expense of $5 million resulting from the remeasurement of our mandatorily redeemable non-controlling interest that was recognized in connection with the Australia acquisition.

Income Taxes

The effective income tax rate for the second quarter of 2020 was (53.0)% compared to 13.3% in the second quarter of the prior year. The effective income tax rate for the second quarter of 2020 reflected an $18 million income tax expense recorded on $(34) million of pre-tax losses. The effective income tax rate for the second quarter of 2019 reflected a $30 million income tax expense recorded on $223 million of pre-tax income.

Our effective income tax rate for the second quarter of 2020 was lower than the United States statutory income tax rate primarily due to (i) the impact of the $879 million of pre-tax goodwill impairment charges recorded during the first quarter of 2020, which were mostly non-deductible for tax purposes and factored into our annualized effective income tax rate, and resulted in an 14.6% decrease to our effective income tax rate, (ii) the tax on foreign earnings in excess of a deemed return on 
tangible assets of foreign corporations (known as “GILTI”) and (iii) the mix of foreign and domestic pre-tax results, as well as the distortive impact of these items on our effective income tax rate for the second quarter of 2020 as a result of the small pre-tax loss during the period.

Our effective income tax rate for the second quarter of 2019 was lower than the United States statutory income tax rate primarily due to (i) the favorable impact of a tax exemption on the noncash gain recorded to write up our existing equity investments in Gazal and PVH Australia to fair value in connection with the Australia acquisition, which resulted in a benefit to our effective tax rate of 13.7%, partially offset by (ii) tax effects of GILTI, which more than offset the benefit of overall 
lower tax rates in certain international jurisdictions where we file tax returns.

Redeemable Non-Controlling Interest

We have a joint venture in Ethiopia with Arvind Limited named PVH Manufacturing Private Limited Company (“PVH Ethiopia”) in which we own a 75% interest. We consolidate the results of PVH Ethiopia in our consolidated financial statements. PVH Ethiopia was formed to operate a manufacturing facility that produces finished products for us for distribution primarily in the United States.

The net loss attributable to the redeemable non-controlling interest (“RNCI”) in PVH Ethiopia was immaterial in the second quarters of 2020 and 2019. Please see Note 5, “Redeemable Non-Controlling Interest,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this report for further discussion.

Twenty-Six Weeks Ended August 2, 2020 Compared With Twenty-Six Weeks Ended August 4, 2019

Total Revenue

Total revenue in the twenty-six weeks ended August 2, 2020 was $2.925 billion as compared to $4.721 billion in the twenty-six week period of the prior year. The decrease in revenue of $1.796 billion, or 38%, was due to the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business and included the aggregate effect of the following items:

• The reduction of an aggregate $712 million of revenue, or a 33% decrease over the prior year period, attributable to our Tommy Hilfiger International and Tommy Hilfiger North America segments. Tommy Hilfiger International segment revenue decreased 23%. Revenue in our Tommy Hilfiger North America segment decreased 51%.

• The reduction of an aggregate $696 million of revenue, or 39% decrease over the prior year period, attributable to our Calvin Klein International and Calvin Klein North America segments. Calvin Klein International segment revenue decreased 28%. Revenue in our Calvin Klein North America segment decreased 52%.

• The reduction of an aggregate $388 million of revenue, or a 49% decrease compared to the prior year period, attributable to our Heritage Brands Retail and Heritage Brands Wholesale segments, which included a 13% decline resulting from the April 2020 sale of the Speedo North America business.

Our revenue in the twenty-six-weeks ended August 2, 2020 reflected a 40% decline in revenue through our wholesale distribution channel and a 35% decline in revenue through our retail distribution channel, which included a 70% increase in sales through our directly operated digital commerce businesses driven by strong growth across all brand businesses and regions.

There is significant uncertainty with respect to the impacts for 2020 of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business and the businesses of our licensees and other business partners. We currently expect that revenue for the full year 2020 will decrease significantly as compared to 2019, including the 38% decline in revenue in the first half of 2020 and an expected decline in revenue of approximately 25% in the second half of 2020, primarily due to the negative impacts to our businesses caused by the 
pandemic. This revenue decline for the full year 2020 also includes an expected decrease of approximately $200 million due to the aggregate net effect of (i) reductions resulting from the Speedo transaction, which closed on April 6, 2020, and the G-III license, which commenced in 2019, partially offset by (ii) an addition of revenue resulting from the Australia and TH CSAP acquisitions, which closed in the second quarter of 2019.

Gross Profit

Gross profit in the twenty-six weeks ended August 2, 2020 was $1.549 billion, or 53.0% of total revenue, as compared to $2.584 billion, or 54.7% of total revenue, in the twenty-six week period of the prior year. The 170 basis point gross margin decrease was primarily driven by (i) additional inventory reserves recorded in the first quarter of 2020 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and (ii) the unfavorable impact of the stronger United States dollar on our international businesses that 
purchase inventory in United States dollars, particularly our European businesses, as the increased local currency value of inventory resulted in higher cost of goods in local currency when the goods were sold, partially offset by (iii) the impact of a favorable change in revenue mix of our International and North America segments, as our International segments revenue is a larger proportion and generally carry higher gross margins.

There is significant uncertainty with respect to the impacts for 2020 of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business and the businesses of our licensees and other business partners. We currently expect that gross margin for the full year 2020 will decrease as compared to 2019, with gross margin in the second half of 2020 expected to be relatively flat compared to gross margin of 53.0% in the first half of 2020. The expected decline in full year 2020 gross margin is primarily due to (i) the need for 
increased promotional selling and inventory liquidation as a result of the impact of the pandemic and (ii) the unfavorable impact of the stronger United States dollar on our international businesses that purchase inventory in United States dollars, particularly our European businesses, as the increased local currency value of inventory results in higher cost of goods in local currency when the goods are sold.

SG&A Expenses

SG&A expenses in the twenty-six weeks ended August 2, 2020 were $1.822 billion, or 62.3% of total revenue, as compared to $2.316 billion, or 49.1% of total revenue, in the twenty-six week period of the prior year. The significant increase in SG&A expenses as a percentage of total revenue was principally attributable to (i) the deleveraging of expenses driven by the significant decline in revenue resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, (ii) the pre-tax noncash impairments of our store assets 
resulting from the impacts of the pandemic on our business, (iii) costs incurred in connection with the planned exit from our Heritage Brands Retail business and the North America workforce reduction, (iv) additional accounts receivable reserves recorded as a result of the pandemic and (v) the impact of the change in revenue mix of our International and North America segments, as our International segments revenue is a larger proportion and generally carry higher SG&A expenses as percentages of 
total revenue. These increases were partially offset by (i) a reduction in expenses as a result of the cost savings initiatives we implemented in April 2020, including temporary furloughs, salary and incentive compensation reductions, and lower discretionary spending, (ii) pandemic-related government payroll subsidy programs primarily in international jurisdictions, as well as rent abatements negotiated with certain of our landlords, and (iii) the absence in 2020 of costs that were incurred in 
the twenty-six weeks ended August 4, 2019 in connection with the Calvin Klein restructuring, the Socks and Hosiery transaction and the TH U.S store closures.

There is significant uncertainty with respect to the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business and our SG&A expenses may be subject to significant material change. We currently expect our SG&A expenses for the full year 2020 will be significantly lower as compared to 2019 as a result of the cost savings initiatives we implemented in April 2020, as well as pandemic-related government payroll subsidy programs primarily in international jurisdictions and rent abatements, although the impact 
to the second half of 2020 will be less pronounced as certain initiatives, including furloughs, COVID-related government payroll subsidy programs and rent abatements, were substantially completed in the second quarter of 2020. Also contributing to the reduction in our SG&A expenses for the full year 2020 is (i) the absence in 2020 of costs related to the Calvin Klein restructuring, the Socks and Hosiery transaction and the TH U.S. store closures, partially offset by (ii) the pre-tax noncash 
impairments of our store assets resulting from the impacts of the pandemic on our business, (iii) costs incurred in connection with the planned exit from our Heritage Brands Retail business and (iv) the additional accounts receivable reserves recorded as a result of the pandemic. However, we expect our SG&A expenses as a percentage of total revenue for the full year 2020 will increase significantly as compared to 2019 primarily due to a deleveraging of expenses driven by the expected decline in 
revenue resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Asset Impairments

We recorded noncash impairment charges of $933 million during the twenty-six weeks ended August 2, 2020 resulting from the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, including $879 million related to goodwill and $54 million related to other intangible assets, primarily our ARROW and GeoffreyBeene tradenames. The impairments resulted from interim impairment assessments of our goodwill and other intangible assets, which we were required to perform in the first quarter of 2020 due to the 
adverse impacts of the pandemic on our current and estimated future business results and cash flows, as well as the significant decrease in our market capitalization as a result of a sustained decline in our common stock price. Please see Note 7, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this report for further discussion.

Non-Service Related Pension and Postretirement Income

Non-service related pension and postretirement income was $4 million in each of the twenty-six weeks ended August 2, 2020 and August 4, 2019.

Non-service related pension and postretirement income (cost) recorded throughout the year is calculated using actuarial valuations that incorporate assumptions and estimates about financial market, economic and demographic conditions. Differences between estimated and actual results give rise to gains and losses that are recorded immediately in earnings, generally in the fourth quarter of the year, which can create volatility in our results of operations. We currently expect that non-service 
related pension and postretirement income for the full year 2020 will be approximately $11 million. However, our expectation of 2020 non-service related pension and post-retirement income does not include the impact of an actuarial gain or loss. If recent market volatility due, in part, to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic continues, we may incur a significant actuarial loss in 2020 as a result of the difference between actual and expected returns on plan assets or if there is a decline in 
discount rates. Our actual 2020 non-service related pension and postretirement income (cost) may be significantly different than our projections. Non-service related pension and postretirement (cost) was $(90) million in 2019, and included a $98 million actuarial loss on our retirement plans recorded in the fourth quarter.

Debt Modification and Extinguishment Costs

We incurred costs totaling $5 million during the twenty-six weeks ended August 4, 2019 in connection with the refinancing of our senior credit facilities. Please see the section entitled “Liquidity and Capital Resources” below for further discussion.

Other Noncash (Gain) Loss

We recorded a noncash loss of $3 million during the twenty-six weeks ended August 2, 2020 in connection with the Speedo transaction. Please see Note 4, “Acquisitions and Divestitures,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this report for further discussion.

We recorded a noncash gain of $113 million in the twenty-six weeks ended August 4, 2019 to write up our equity investments in Gazal and PVH Australia to fair value in connection with the Australia acquisition. Please see Note 4, “Acquisitions and Divestitures,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this report for further discussion.

Equity in Net (Loss) Income of Unconsolidated Affiliates

The equity in net (loss) income of unconsolidated affiliates was a $(15) million loss in the twenty-six weeks ended August 2, 2020 as compared to $5 million of income in the twenty-six-week period of the prior year. These amounts relate to our share of (loss) income from (i) our joint venture for theTOMMY HILFIGER, CALVIN KLEIN, Warner’s, Olga and Speedo brands in Mexico, (ii) our joint ventures for the TOMMY HILFIGER brand in India and Brazil, (iii) our joint venture for the CALVIN KLEIN brand 
in India, (iv) our PVH Legwear joint venture for the TOMMYHILFIGER, CALVIN KLEIN, IZOD, Van Heusen andWarner’s brands and other owned and licensed trademarks in the United States and Canada that began operations in December 2019, (v) PVH Australia (prior to acquiring it on May 31, 2019 through the Australia acquisition) and (vi) our investments in Gazal (prior to acquiring it on May 31, 2019 through the Australia acquisition) and Karl Lagerfeld (prior to its impairment in the first quarter of 
2020). Please see Note 6, “Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this report for further discussion of our investment in Karl Lagerfeld. The equity in net (loss) income for the twenty-six weeks ended 2020 decreased as compared to the prior year period primarily due to (i) a $12 million pre-tax noncash impairment of our investment in Karl Lagerfeld recorded in the first quarter of 2020 resulting from the impacts 
of the COVID-19 pandemic on its business, and (ii) a reduction in income on our investments due to the negative impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our unconsolidated affiliates’ businesses. Our investments in the continuing joint ventures are being accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Subsequent to the closing of the Australia acquisition, we began to consolidate the operations of Gazal and PVH Australia into our financial statements. Please see the section entitled “Investments
in Unconsolidated Affiliates” within “Liquidity and Capital Resources” below for further discussion.

We currently expect that our equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates for the full year 2020 will decrease as compared to 2019 primarily due to (i) the impairment of our investment in Karl Lagerfeld recorded in the first quarter of 2020, (ii) a reduction in income on our investments due to the negative impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our unconsolidated affiliates’ businesses in 2020, partially offset by (iii) an increase in income on our investment in PVH Legwear as compared to 
2019, due to the recognition of a full year of income in 2020, and (iv) the absence in 2020 of one-time expenses of $2 million recorded on our investments in Gazal and PVH Australia prior to the closing of the Australia acquisition.

Interest Expense, Net

Interest expense, net decreased to $53 million in the twenty-six weeks ended August 2, 2020 from $57 million in the twenty-six week period of the prior year primarily due to lower interest rates on our senior unsecured credit facilities as compared to the prior year period.

We currently expect that interest expense, net for the full year 2020 will be relatively flat as compared to 2019 primarily due to (i) the issuance in April 2020 of an additional €175 million principal amount of 3 5/8% senior notes due 2024 and in July 2020 of $500 million principal amount of 4 5/8% senior notes due 2025, partially offset by (ii) an expected decrease in the expense recorded on remeasurement of our mandatorily redeemable non-controlling interest that was recognized in connection 
with the Australia acquisition.

Income Taxes

The effective income tax rate for the twenty-six weeks ended August 2, 2020 was 9.8% compared to 16.3% in the twenty-six week period of the prior year. The effective income tax rate for the twenty-six weeks ended August 2, 2020 reflected a $(125)

million income tax benefit recorded on $(1.273) billion of pre-tax losses. The effective income tax rate for the twenty-six weeks ended August 4, 2019 reflected a $53 million income tax expense recorded on $328 million of pre-tax income.

Our effective income tax rate for the twenty-six weeks ended August 2, 2020 was lower than the United States statutory income tax rate primarily due to (i) the impact of the $879 million of pre-tax goodwill impairment charges, which were mostly non-deductible for tax purposes and resulted in a 9.8% decrease in our effective income tax rate, (ii) the tax effects of GILTI and (iii) the mix of foreign and domestic pre-tax results. The pre-tax goodwill impairment charges were factored into our 
annualized effective income tax rate and, as such, will have a corresponding impact on our quarterly effective income tax rates for the remainder of 2020.

Our effective income tax rate for the twenty-six weeks ended August 4, 2019 was lower than the United States statutory income tax rate primarily due to (i) the favorable impact of a tax exemption on the noncash gain recorded to write up our existing equity investments in Gazal and PVH Australia to fair value in connection with the Australia acquisition, which resulted in a benefit to our effective tax rate of 8.5%, partially offset by (ii) the tax effects of GILTI, which more than offset the 
benefit of overall lower tax rates in certain international jurisdictions where we file tax returns.

In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, local governments enacted measures to provide aid and economic stimulus to companies. On March 27, 2020, the United States government enacted the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the “CARES Act”), which includes various income tax provisions aimed at providing economic relief. We currently expect a slight favorable cash flow impact in 2020 as a result of the deferral of income tax payments under the CARES Act and other local government 
relief initiatives. We also considered the significant adverse impact of the pandemic on our business in assessing the realizability of our deferred tax assets. Based on this assessment, we determined that no additional valuation allowances were needed against our deferred tax assets. However, we will continue to monitor the impacts on our ability to realize our deferred tax assets.

We file income tax returns in more than 40 international jurisdictions each year. A substantial amount of our earnings are in international jurisdictions, particularly the Netherlands and Hong Kong, where income tax rates, coupled with special rates levied on income from certain of our jurisdictional activities, are lower than the United States statutory income tax rate.

Given the significant uncertainty with respect to the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business and results of operations, we have not provided an estimate of our effective income tax rate for the full year 2020.

Our tax rate is affected by many factors, including the mix of international and domestic pre-tax earnings, discrete events arising from specific transactions and new regulations, as well as audits by tax authorities and the receipt of new information, any of which can cause us to change our estimate for uncertain tax positions.

RNCI

The net loss attributable to the RNCI was immaterial in the twenty-six weeks ended August 2, 2020 and August 4, 2019. We currently expect that the net loss attributable to the RNCI for the full year 2020 will be immaterial. Please see Note 5, “Redeemable Non-Controlling Interest,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part 1, Item 1 of this report for further discussion.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Liquidity Update

The COVID-19 pandemic has had, and is expected to continue to have, a significant adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows in 2020. While there is significant uncertainty about the duration and extent of the impacts of the pandemic, we expect there will be a significant negative impact to our cash flows from operations in 2020, resulting from a loss of revenue and earnings. Given the unprecedented impacts of the pandemic on our business, we have 
taken the following actions to strengthen our financial position:

• Issued $500 million principal amount of 4 5/8% senior notes due 2025 in July 2020.

• Obtained a waiver in June 2020 of the leverage and interest coverage ratios under our senior unsecured credit facilities (referred to as the “June 2020 Amendment”).

• Issued an additional €175 million principal amount of 3 5/8% senior notes due 2024 in April 2020.

• Entered into a $275 million 364-day revolving credit facility in April 2020.

• Suspended our cash dividend beginning with the second quarter.

• Suspended share repurchases under the stock repurchase program in mid-March, following $111 million in repurchases completed in the first quarter.

• Focused management of our working capital, with particular focus on inventories, including reducing and cancelling inventory commitments, redeploying basic inventory items to subsequent seasons and consolidating future seasonal collections, as well as negotiating extended payment terms with our suppliers.

• Reduced expected capital expenditures for the full year 2020 to approximately $190 million from $345 million in 2019.

We ended the second quarter of 2020 with $1.4 billion of cash on hand and approximately $1.4 billion of borrowing capacity available under our various debt facilities. We believe that we have taken appropriate actions to manage through the uncertainty related to the COVID-19 pandemic and are continuously reevaluating all aspects of our spending and cash flow generation as the situation evolves.

Cash Flow Summary

Cash and cash equivalents at August 2, 2020 was $1.394 billion, an increase of $891 million from the amount at February 2, 2020 of $503 million. The change in cash and cash equivalents included the impact of (i) $111 million of common stock repurchases under the stock repurchase program (with no further repurchases for the remainder of 2020), (ii) $169 million of net proceeds in connection with the Speedo transaction, (iii) $186 million of net proceeds from the issuance of an additional €175 
million principal amount of 3 5/8% senior notes due 2024 and (iv) $495 million of net proceeds from the issuance of $500 million principal amount of 4 5/8% senior notes due 2025.

Cash flow for the full year 2020 will be impacted by various factors in addition to those noted above and below in this “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section. Given the dynamic nature of the COVID-19 pandemic, our estimates of cash flows in 2020 may be subject to material significant change, including as a result of the impacts of the pandemic on our 2020 earnings, additional borrowings under existing or new financing arrangements, excess inventories, delays in collection of, or inability to
collect on, certain trade receivables, and other working capital changes that we may experience as a result of the pandemic.

As of August 2, 2020, approximately $723 million of cash and cash equivalents was held by international subsidiaries. Our intent is to reinvest indefinitely substantially all of our earnings in foreign subsidiaries outside of the United States. However, if management decides at a later date to repatriate these earnings to the United States, we may be required to accrue and pay additional taxes, including any applicable foreign withholding tax and United States state income taxes. It is not 
practicable to estimate the amount of tax that might be payable if these earnings were repatriated due to the complexities associated with the hypothetical calculation.

Operations

Cash provided by operating activities was $248 million in the twenty-six weeks ended August 2, 2020 compared to $318 million in the twenty-six weeks ended August 4, 2019. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities as compared to the prior year period was primarily driven by a significant decrease in net (loss) income as adjusted for noncash charges, partially offset by a favorable change in our working capital, including favorable changes in (i) trade receivables, primarily driven by 
a decline in our wholesale revenue, as well as an increase in our reserves due to the impact on us of the COVID-19 pandemic, (ii) inventories, primarily due to focused management of our inventory, including reducing and cancelling inventory commitments, and (iii) accounts payable, primarily due to extended vendor payment terms. Our cash flows from operations in the twenty-six weeks ended August 2, 2020 was significantly impacted by widespread temporary store closures and other significant 
adverse impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. In an effort to mitigate the impacts of the pandemic and preserve liquidity, we have been and continue to be focused on working capital management, in particular tightly managing inventories, including reducing and cancelling inventory commitments, redeploying basic inventory items to subsequent seasons and consolidating future seasonal collections, as well as negotiating extended payment terms with our suppliers.

Capital Expenditures

Our capital expenditures in the twenty-six weeks ended August 2, 2020 were $108 million compared to $151 million in the twenty-six weeks ended August 4, 2019. We currently expect capital expenditures for the full year 2020 will decrease to approximately $190 million from $345 million in 2019, as we tightly manage spending to preserve liquidity in response to the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, and will include only certain minimum required expenditures in our retail

stores and expenditures for projects currently in progress, primarily related to (i) investments to support the multi-year upgrade of our platforms and systems worldwide and (ii) enhancements to our warehouse and distribution network.

Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates

We made a payment of $2 million in the third quarter of 2020 to our PVH Legwear joint venture to contribute our share of the joint venture funding. We currently do not expect to make any further payments to contribute our share of our joint ventures funding during the remainder of 2020.

We received dividends of $10 million from our investments in unconsolidated affiliates during the twenty-six weeks ended August 4, 2019. These dividends are included in our net cash provided by operating activities in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the period.

Speedo Transaction

We completed the sale of our Speedo North America business to Pentland on April 6, 2020 for net proceeds of $169 million. The net proceeds from the sale are subject to a final working capital adjustment based on the terms of the agreement and as such, are subject to change in a future period. Please see Note 4, “Acquisitions and Divestitures,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this report for further discussion.

TH CSAP Acquisition

We completed the acquisition of the Tommy Hilfiger retail business in Central and Southeast Asia on July 1, 2019 for $74 million. Please see Note 4, “Acquisitions and Divestitures,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this report for further discussion.

Australia Acquisition

We completed the Australia acquisition on May 31, 2019. This transaction resulted in a net cash payment of $59 million, including (i) a payment of $118 million, net of cash acquired of $7 million, as cash consideration for the acquisition and (ii) proceeds of $59 million related to the sale of an office building and warehouse owned by Gazal. Please see Note 4, “Acquisitions and Divestitures,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this report for further 
discussion.

Mandatorily Redeemable Non-Controlling Interest

The Australia acquisition agreement provided for key executives of Gazal and PVH Australia to exchange a portion of their interests in Gazal for approximately 6% of the outstanding shares of our previously wholly owned subsidiary that acquired 100% of the ownership interests in the Australia business. We are obligated to purchase this 6% interest within two years of the acquisition closing in two tranches as follows: tranche 1 - 50% of the shares one year after the closing, but the holders had 
the option to defer half of this tranche to tranche 2; and tranche 2 - all remaining shares two years after the closing. With respect to tranche 1, the holders elected not to defer their shares and, as a result, we purchased all of the tranche 1 shares in June 2020 for $17 million (based on exchange rates in effect on the payment date). The purchase price for the tranche 1 and tranche 2 shares is based on a multiple of the subsidiary’s adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and 
amortization (“EBITDA”) less net debt as of the end of the measurement year, and the multiple varies depending on the level of EBITDA compared to a target. The $17 million payment for the tranche 1 shares was presented in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows as follows: (i) $13 million as a financing cash flow, which represents the initial fair value of the liability recognized for the tranche 1 shares on the acquisition date, and (ii) $5 million, attributable to interest, as an operating 
cash flow.

The liability for the mandatorily redeemable non-controlling interest was $19 million as of August 2, 2020 based on exchange rates in effect on that date, which related to tranche 2 shares and was included in accrued expenses in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Please see Note 4, “Acquisitions and Divestitures,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this report for further discussion.

Dividends

Dividends on common stock totaled $3 million in the twenty-six weeks ended August 2, 2020 as compared to $9 million in the twenty-six weeks ended August 4, 2019.

Following the payment of a $0.0375 per common share dividend on March 31, 2020, we suspended our dividends in order to increase our cash position and preserve financial flexibility in response to the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business. In addition, under the terms of the June 2020 Amendment, dividend payments are not permitted during the relief period (as defined below). Please see the section entitled “2019 Senior Unsecured Credit Facilities” below for further discussion.

Acquisition of Treasury Shares

Our Board of Directors has authorized over time since 2015 an aggregate $2 billion stock repurchase program through June 3, 2023. The program may be modified by the Board of Directors, including to increase or decrease the repurchase limitation or extend, suspend, or terminate the program, at any time, without prior notice.

We suspended share repurchases under the stock repurchase program beginning in mid-March 2020, following the purchase of 1 million shares in open market transactions for $111 million completed in the first quarter, in order to increase our cash position and preserve financial flexibility in response to the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business. In addition, under the terms of the June 2020 Amendment, share repurchases are not permitted during the relief period (as defined below). 
Please see the section entitled “2019 Senior Unsecured Credit Facilities” below for further discussion. The existing stock repurchase program remains authorized by the Board of Directors and we may resume share repurchases after the restrictions under the June 2020 Amendment lapse.

Repurchases under the program, when it is being used, may be made from time to time over the period through open market purchases, accelerated share repurchase programs, privately negotiated transactions or other methods, as we deem appropriate. Purchases are made based on a variety of factors, such as price, corporate requirements and overall market conditions, applicable legal requirements and limitations, trading restrictions under our insider trading policy and other relevant factors.

During the twenty-six weeks ended August 4, 2019, the Company purchased 1 million shares of its common stock under the program in open market transactions for $127 million. Purchases of $2 million were accrued for in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of August 4, 2019. Purchases of $500,000 that were accrued for in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of February 2, 2020 were paid in the first quarter of 2020. As of August 2, 2020, the repurchased shares were held as treasury stock and $573 million
of the authorization remained available for future share repurchases.

Treasury stock activity also includes shares that were withheld principally in conjunction with the settlement of restricted stock units and performance share units to satisfy tax withholding requirements.

Financing Arrangements

Our capital structure was as follows:

  (In millions)                          8/2/20                 2/2/20                 8/4/19             
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Short-term borrowings                  $              71      $              50      $             183  
  Current portion of long-term debt      15                     14                     41                 
  Finance lease obligations              14                     15                     15                 
  Long-term debt                                     3,498                  2,694                  2,743  
  Stockholders’ equity                               4,583                  5,811                  5,872  

Short-Term Borrowings

We have the ability to draw revolving borrowings under the senior unsecured credit facilities discussed below in the section entitled “2019 Senior Unsecured Credit Facilities.” We had no borrowings outstanding under these facilities as of August 2, 2020. The maximum amount of revolving borrowings temporarily outstanding under these facilities during the twenty-six weeks ended August 2, 2020 was $746 million.

We also have the ability to draw revolving borrowings under our 364-day unsecured revolving credit facility discussed below in the section entitled “2020 Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility.” We had no borrowings outstanding under this facility as of or during the twenty-six weeks ended August 2, 2020.

Additionally, we have the ability to borrow under short-term lines of credit, overdraft facilities and short-term revolving credit facilities denominated in various foreign currencies. These facilities provided for borrowings of up to $236 million based on

exchange rates in effect on August 2, 2020 and are utilized primarily to fund working capital needs. We had $71 million outstanding under these facilities as of August 2, 2020. The weighted average interest rate on funds borrowed as of August 2, 2020 was 2.02%. The maximum amount of borrowings outstanding under these facilities during the twenty-six weeks ended August 2, 2020 was $97 million.

Commercial Paper

We have the ability to issue, from time to time, unsecured commercial paper notes with maturities that vary but do not exceed 397 days from the date of issuance primarily to fund working capital needs. We had no borrowings outstanding under the commercial paper note program as of August 2, 2020. The maximum amount of borrowings temporarily outstanding under the program during the twenty-six weeks ended August 2, 2020 was $165 million.

The commercial paper program allows for borrowings of up to $675 million to the extent that we have borrowing capacity under the United States dollar-denominated revolving credit facility included in the 2019 facilities (as defined below). Accordingly, the combined aggregate amount of (i) borrowings outstanding under the commercial paper note program and (ii) the revolving borrowings outstanding under the United States dollar-denominated revolving credit facility at any one time cannot exceed 
$675 million. The maximum aggregate amount of borrowings outstanding under the commercial paper program and the United States dollar-denominated portion of the revolving credit facility during the twenty-six weeks ended August 2, 2020 was $660 million.

2020 Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility

On April 8, 2020, we entered into a 364-day $275 million United States dollar-denominated unsecured revolving credit facility (the “2020 facility”). We may increase the commitment under the 2020 facility by an aggregate amount not to exceed $100 million, subject to certain customary conditions. The 2020 facility will mature on April 7, 2021. We paid $2 million of debt issuance costs in connection with the 2020 facility.

Currently, our obligations under the 2020 facility are unsecured and are not guaranteed by any of our subsidiaries. However, within 120 days after the occurrence of a specified credit ratings decrease (as set forth in the 2020 facility), (i) we must cause each of our wholly owned United States subsidiaries (subject to certain customary exceptions) to become a guarantor under the 2020 facility and (ii) we and each subsidiary guarantor will be required to grant liens in favor of the collateral 
agent on substantially all of our respective assets (subject to customary exceptions).

The outstanding borrowings under the 2020 facility are prepayable at any time without penalty (other than customary breakage costs). The borrowings under the 2020 facility bear interest at a rate equal to an applicable margin plus, as determined at our option, either (a) a base rate determined by reference to the greater of (i) the prime rate, (ii) the United States federal funds effective rate plus 1/2 of 1.00% and (iii) a one-month reserve adjusted Eurocurrency rate plus 1.00% or (b) an 
adjusted Eurocurrency rate, calculated in a manner set forth in the 2020 facility.

The current applicable margin with respect to the borrowings as of August 2, 2020 was 2.250% for adjusted Eurocurrency rate loans and 1.250% for base rate loans. The applicable margin for borrowings is subject to adjustment based upon our public debt rating after the date of delivery of notice of a change in our public debt rating by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s.

We had no borrowings outstanding under the 2020 facility during the twenty-six weeks ended August 2, 2020.

The 2020 facility requires us to comply with affirmative, negative and financial covenants, including a minimum interest coverage ratio and maximum net leverage ratio, which are subject to change in the event that, and in the same manner as, the minimum interest coverage ratio and maximum net leverage ratio covenants under the 2019 facilities are amended. We amended the 2019 facilities in June 2020 (referred to as the “June 2020 Amendment”). Refer to the section entitled “2019 Senior Unsecured 
Credit Facilities” below for further discussion.

Finance Lease Liabilities

Our cash payments for finance lease liabilities totaled $3 million in each of the twenty-six weeks ended August 2, 2020 and August 4, 2019.

2016 Senior Secured Credit Facilities

On May 19, 2016, we entered into an amendment to our senior secured credit facilities (as amended, the “2016 facilities”). We replaced the 2016 facilities with new senior unsecured credit facilities on April 29, 2019 as discussed in the section entitled “2019 Senior Unsecured Credit Facilities” below. The 2016 facilities, as of the date they were replaced, consisted of a $2.347 billion United States dollar-denominated Term Loan A facility and senior secured revolving credit facilities consisting
of (i) a $475 million United States dollar-denominated revolving credit facility, (ii) a $25 million United States dollar-denominated revolving credit facility available in United States dollars and Canadian dollars and (iii) a €186 million euro-denominated revolving credit facility available in euro, British pound sterling, Japanese yen and Swiss francs.

2019 Senior Unsecured Credit Facilities

We refinanced the 2016 facilities on April 29, 2019 (the “Closing Date”) by entering into senior unsecured credit facilities (the “2019 facilities”), the proceeds of which, along with cash on hand, were used to repay all of the outstanding borrowings under the 2016 facilities, as well as the related debt issuance costs.

The 2019 facilities consist of a $1.093 billion United States dollar-denominated Term Loan A facility (the “USD TLA facility”), a €500 million euro-denominated Term Loan A facility (the “Euro TLA facility” and together with the USD TLA facility, the “TLA facilities”) and senior unsecured revolving credit facilities consisting of (i) a $675 million United States dollar-denominated revolving credit facility, (ii) a CAD $70 million Canadian dollar-denominated revolving credit facility available in 
United States dollars or Canadian dollars, (iii) a €200 million euro-denominated revolving credit facility available in euro, British pound sterling, Japanese yen, Swiss francs, Australian dollars and other agreed foreign currencies and (iv) a $50 million United States dollar-denominated revolving credit facility available in United States dollars or Hong Kong dollars. The 2019 facilities are due on April 29, 2024. In connection with the refinancing of our senior credit facilities, we paid debt 
issuance costs of $10 million (of which $3 million was expensed as debt modification costs and $7 million is being amortized over the term of the debt agreement) and recorded debt extinguishment costs of $2 million to write off previously capitalized debt issuance costs.

Each of the senior unsecured revolving credit facilities, except for the $50 million United States dollar-denominated revolving credit facility available in United States dollars or Hong Kong dollars, also include amounts available for letters of credit and have a portion available for the making of swingline loans. The issuance of such letters of credit and the making of any swingline loan reduces the amount available under the applicable revolving credit facility. So long as certain conditions
are satisfied, we may add one or more senior unsecured term loan facilities or increase the commitments under the senior unsecured revolving credit facilities by an aggregate amount not to exceed $1.5 billion. The lenders under the 2019 facilities are not required to provide commitments with respect to such additional facilities or increased commitments.

We had loans outstanding of $1.601 billion, net of debt issuance costs and based on applicable exchange rates, under the TLA facilities, no borrowings outstanding under the senior unsecured revolving credit facilities and $24 million of outstanding letters of credit under the senior unsecured revolving credit facilities as of August 2, 2020.

The terms of the TLA facilities require us to make quarterly repayments of amounts outstanding under the 2019 facilities, which commenced with the calendar quarter ended September 30, 2019. Such required repayment amounts equal 2.50% per annum of the principal amount outstanding on the Closing Date for the first eight calendar quarters following the Closing Date, 5.00% per annum of the principal amount outstanding on the Closing Date for the four calendar quarters thereafter and 7.50% per annum 
of the principal amount outstanding on the Closing Date for the remaining calendar quarters, in each case paid in equal installments and in each case subject to certain customary adjustments, with the balance due on the maturity date of the TLA facilities. The outstanding borrowings under the 2019 facilities are prepayable at any time without penalty (other than customary breakage costs). Any voluntary repayments we make would reduce the future required repayment amounts.

We made payments of $7 million on our term loans under the 2019 facilities during the twenty-six weeks ended August 2, 2020, and we expect to make mandatory long-term debt repayments of approximately $14 million during the full year 2020. We made no payments on our term loans under the 2019 facilities and 2016 facilities during the twenty-six weeks ended August 4, 2019 other than the repayment of the 2016 facilities in connection with the refinancing of the 2016 senior credit facilities.

The United States dollar-denominated borrowings under the 2019 facilities bear interest at a rate equal to an applicable margin plus, as determined at our option, either (a) a base rate determined by reference to the greater of (i) the prime rate, (ii) the United States federal funds effective rate plus 1/2 of 1.00% and (iii) a one-month reserve adjusted Eurocurrency rate plus 1.00% or (b) an adjusted Eurocurrency rate, calculated in a manner set forth in the 2019 facilities.

The Canadian dollar-denominated borrowings under the 2019 facilities bear interest at a rate equal to an applicable margin plus, as determined at our option, either (a) a Canadian prime rate determined by reference to the greater of (i) the rate of interest per annum that Royal Bank of Canada establishes as the reference rate of interest in order to determine interest rates for loans in Canadian dollars to its Canadian borrowers and (ii) the average of the rates per annum for Canadian dollar 
bankers' acceptances having a term of one month or (b) an adjusted Eurocurrency rate, calculated in a manner set forth in the 2019 facilities.

Borrowings available in Hong Kong dollars under the 2019 facilities bear interest at a rate equal to an applicable margin plus an adjusted Eurocurrency rate, calculated in a manner set forth in the 2019 facilities.

The borrowings under the 2019 facilities in currencies other than United States dollars, Canadian dollars or Hong Kong dollars bear interest at a rate equal to an applicable margin plus an adjusted Eurocurrency rate, calculated in a manner set forth in the 2019 facilities.

The current applicable margin with respect to the TLA facilities and each revolving credit facility as of August 2, 2020 was 1.625% for adjusted Eurocurrency rate loans and 0.625% for base rate or Canadian prime rate loans, which reflects an increase of 0.25% as set forth in the June 2020 Amendment (as defined below). The applicable margin for borrowings under the TLA facilities and the revolving credit facilities is subject to adjustment (i) after the date of delivery of the compliance 
certificate and financial statements, with respect to each of our fiscal quarters, based upon our net leverage ratio or (ii) after the date of delivery of notice of a change in our public debt rating by Standard & Poor’s or Moody’s.

We entered into interest rate swap agreements designed with the intended effect of converting notional amounts of our variable rate debt obligation to fixed rate debt. Under the terms of the agreements, for the outstanding notional amount, our exposure to fluctuations in the one-month LIBOR is eliminated and we pay a fixed rate plus the current applicable margin. The following interest rate swap agreements were entered into or in effect during the twenty-six weeks ended August 2, 2020 and/or 
August 4, 2019:

  (In millions)                                                                                                                                                    
  Designation Date      Commencement Date      Initial Notional Amount      Notional Amount Outstanding as of August 2, 2020      Fixed Rate      Expiration Date  
  March 2020            February 2021                                $      $                                                         0.562%      February 2023    
  February 2020         February 2020                               50      50                                                       1.2575%      February 2023    
  August 2019           February 2020                               50      50                                                       1.1975%      February 2022    
  June 2019             February 2020                               50      50                                                        1.409%      February 2022    
  June 2019             June 2019                                   50      50                                                        1.719%      July 2021        
  January 2019          February 2020                               50      50                                                       2.4187%      February 2021    
  November 2018         February 2019                              139      127                                                      2.8645%      February 2021    
  October 2018          February 2019                              116      160                                                      2.9975%      February 2021    
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  February 2020         February 2021                               50      —                                                        1.1625%      February 2023    
  June 2018             August 2018                                 50      50                                                       2.6825%      February 2021    
  June 2017             February 2018                              306      —                                                         1.566%      February 2020    

The notional amounts of the outstanding interest rate swaps that commenced in February 2019 are adjusted according to pre-set schedules during the terms of the swap agreements such that, based on our projections for future debt repayments, our outstanding debt under the USD TLA facility is expected to always equal or exceed the combined notional amount of the then-outstanding interest rate swaps.

Our 2019 facilities require us to comply with customary affirmative, negative and financial covenants including a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum net leverage ratio. Given the disruption to our business caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and to ensure financial flexibility, we amended these facilities in June 2020 to provide temporary relief of certain financial covenants until the date on which a compliance certificate is delivered for the second quarter of 2021 (the “relief period”)
unless we elect earlier to terminate the relief period and satisfy the conditions for doing so (the “June 2020 Amendment”). The June 2020 Amendment provides for the following during the relief period, among other things, the (i) suspension of compliance with the maximum net leverage ratio through and including the first quarter of 2021, (ii) suspension of the minimum interest coverage ratio through and including the first quarter of 2021, (iii) addition of a minimum liquidity

covenant of $400 million, (iv) addition of a restricted payment covenant and (v) imposition of stricter limitations on the incurrence of indebtedness and liens. The limitation on restricted payments requires that we suspend payments of dividends on our common stock and purchases of shares under our stock repurchase program during the relief period. The June 2020 Amendment also provides that during the relief period the applicable margin will be increased 0.25%. In addition, under the June 2020 
Amendment, in the event there is a specified credit ratings downgrade by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s during the relief period (as set forth in the June 2020 Amendment), within 120 days thereafter (i) we must cause each of our wholly owned United States subsidiaries (subject to certain customary exceptions) to become a guarantor under the 2019 facilities and (ii) we and each subsidiary guarantor will be required to grant liens in favor of the collateral agent on substantially all of our 
respective assets (subject to customary exceptions). As of August 2, 2020, we were in compliance with all applicable financial and non-financial covenants (as amended) under these facilities.

We expect to maintain compliance with the financial covenants (as amended) under the 2019 facilities for at least the next 12 months based on our current forecasts. If the adverse impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business worsen and our earnings and operating cash flows do not recover as currently estimated by us, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain compliance with our financial covenants (as amended) in the future. There can be no assurance that we would be able to
obtain future waivers in a timely manner, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we were not able to maintain compliance or obtain a future covenant waiver under our credit facilities, there can be no assurance that we would be able to raise sufficient debt or equity capital, or divest assets, to refinance or repay such facilities.

7 3/4% Debentures Due 2023

We have outstanding $100 million of debentures due November 15, 2023 that accrue interest at the rate of 7 3/4%. The debentures are not redeemable at our option prior to maturity.

3 5/8% Euro Senior Notes Due 2024

We have outstanding €525 million principal amount of 3 5/8% senior notes due July 15, 2024, of which €175 million principal amount was issued on April 24, 2020. Interest on the notes is payable in euros. We paid €3 million ($3 million based on exchange rates in effect on the payment date) of fees in connection with the issuance of the additional €175 million notes. We may redeem some or all of these notes at any time prior to April 15, 2024 by paying a “make whole” premium plus any accrued and 
unpaid interest. In addition, we may redeem some or all of these notes on or after April 15, 2024 at their principal amount plus any accrued and unpaid interest.

4 5/8% Senior Notes Due 2025

We issued on July 10, 2020 $500 million principal amount of 4 5/8% senior notes due July 10, 2025. The interest rate payable on the notes is subject to adjustment if either Standard & Poor’s or Moody’s, or any substitute rating agency, as defined in the indenture governing the notes, downgrades the credit rating assigned to the notes. We incurred $6 million of fees, of which $5 million were paid during the second quarter of 2020 in connection with the issuance of the notes. We may redeem some or
all of these notes at any time prior to June 10, 2025 by paying a “make whole” premium plus any accrued and unpaid interest. In addition, we may redeem some or all of these notes on or after June 10, 2025 at their principal amount plus any accrued and unpaid interest.

Our ability to create liens on our assets or engage in sale/leaseback transactions is restricted as defined in the indenture governing the notes.

3 1/8% Euro Senior Notes Due 2027

We have outstanding €600 million principal amount of 3 1/8% senior notes due December 15, 2027. Interest on the notes is payable in euros. We may redeem some or all of these notes at any time prior to September 15, 2027 by paying a “make whole” premium plus any accrued and unpaid interest. In addition, we may redeem some or all of these notes on or after September 15, 2027 at their principal amount plus any accrued and unpaid interest.

Our financing arrangements contain financial and non-financial covenants and customary events of default. As of August 2, 2020, we were in compliance with all applicable financial and non-financial covenants under our financing arrangements.

As of August 2, 2020, our issuer credit was rated BBB- by Standard & Poor’s with a negative outlook and our corporate credit was rated Baa3 by Moody’s with a stable outlook, and our commercial paper was rated A-3 by Standard & Poor’s and P-3 by Moody’s. In assessing our credit strength, we believe that both Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s considered, among other

things, our capital structure and financial policies, our consolidated balance sheet, our historical acquisition activity and other financial information, as well as industry and other qualitative factors.

Please see Note 9, “Debt,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this report for a schedule of mandatory long-term debt repayments for the remainder of 2020 through 2025.

Please see Note 9, “Debt,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended February 2, 2020 for further discussion of our debt.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Our consolidated financial statements are based on the selection and application of significant accounting policies, which require management to make significant estimates and assumptions. Our significant accounting policies are outlined in Note 1, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended February 2, 2020.

Goodwill and Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets Impairment Testing

We assess the recoverability of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets annually, at the beginning of the third quarter of each fiscal year, and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate that it is more likely than not that the carrying amount may be impaired. Impairment testing for goodwill is done at the reporting unit level. Impairment testing for other indefinite-lived intangible assets is done at the individual asset level. Intangible 
assets with finite lives are amortized over their estimated useful life and are tested for impairment, along with other long-lived assets, when events and circumstances indicate that the assets might be impaired. Indefinite-lived intangible assets and intangible assets with finite lives are tested for impairment prior to assessing the recoverability of goodwill.

Goodwill

We determined in the first quarter of 2020 that the significant adverse impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, including an unprecedented decline in revenue and earnings and an extended decline in our stock price and associated market capitalization, was a triggering event that required us to perform a quantitative interim goodwill impairment test.

As a result of the interim test performed, we recorded $879 million of noncash impairment charges in the first quarter of 2020, which was included in goodwill and other intangible asset impairments in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. The impairment charges, which related to the Heritage Brands Wholesale, Calvin Klein Retail North America, Calvin Klein Wholesale North America, Calvin Klein Licensing and Advertising International, and Calvin Klein International reporting units, were 
recorded to our segments as follows: $198 million in the Heritage Brands Wholesale segment, $287 million in the Calvin Klein North America segment, and $394 million in the Calvin Klein International segment. Our impairment assessment was performed in accordance with the accounting guidance adopted in the first quarter of 2020 that simplifies the testing for goodwill impairment, as discussed in Note 21, “Recent Accounting Guidance.”

Of these reporting units, Calvin Klein Wholesale North America, Calvin Klein Licensing and Advertising International, and Calvin Klein International were determined to be partially impaired. The remaining carrying amount of goodwill allocated to these reporting units as of the date of our interim test was $162 million, $143 million and $347 million, respectively. Holding all other assumptions used in the interim test constant, a 100 basis point change in the annual revenue growth rate 
assumptions for these businesses would result in a change to the estimated fair value of the reporting units of approximately $80 million, $20 million and $140 million, respectively. Likewise, a 100 basis point change in the weighted average cost of capital would result in a change to the estimated fair value of the reporting units of approximately $60 million, $15 million and $125 million, respectively. While these reporting units were not determined to be fully impaired in the first quarter of
2020, they may be at risk of further impairment in the future in the event the related businesses do not perform as projected, including if they fail to recover as planned following the COVID-19 pandemic, or if market factors utilized in the impairment analysis deteriorate, including an unfavorable change in long-term growth rates or the weighted average cost of capital.

With respect to our other reporting units that were not determined to be impaired, the Tommy Hilfiger International reporting unit had an estimated fair value that exceeded its carrying amount as of the date of our interim test of $2,949 million by 5%. The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to this reporting unit was $1,558 million. Holding all other assumptions used in the interim test constant, a 100 basis point change in the annual revenue growth rate of the Tommy Hilfiger International 
business would result in a change to the estimated fair value of the reporting unit of approximately $355 million. Likewise, a 100 basis point change in the weighted average cost of capital would result in a change to the estimated fair value of the reporting unit of

approximately $320 million. While the Tommy Hilfiger International reporting unit was not determined to be impaired in the first quarter of 2020, it may be at risk of future impairment in the event the related business does not perform as projected, including if it fails to recover as planned following the COVID-19 pandemic, or if market factors utilized in the impairment analysis deteriorate, including an unfavorable change in the long-term growth rate or the weighted average cost of capital.

The fair value of the reporting units for goodwill impairment testing was determined using an income approach and validated using a market approach. The income approach was based on discounted projected future (debt-free) cash flows for each reporting unit. The discount rates applied to these cash flows were based on the weighted average cost of capital for each reporting unit, which takes market participant assumptions into consideration. Estimated future operating cash flows included in the 
interim test in the first quarter of 2020 were discounted at rates of 10%, 10.5% or 11%, depending on the reporting unit, to account for the relative risks of the estimated future cash flows. For the market approach, used to validate the results of the income approach method, we used both the guideline company and similar transaction methods. The guideline company method analyzes market multiples of revenue and EBITDA for a group of comparable public companies. The market multiples used in the 
valuation are based on the relative strengths and weaknesses of the reporting unit compared to the selected guideline companies. Under the similar transactions method, valuation multiples are calculated utilizing actual transaction prices and revenue and EBITDA data from target companies deemed similar to the reporting unit. We classified the fair values of our reporting units as Level 3 fair value measurements due to the use of significant unobservable inputs.

There have been no events or change in circumstances during the second quarter of 2020 that would indicate the remaining carrying amount of our goodwill may be impaired as of August 2, 2020. There is still significant uncertainty about the duration and extent of the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. If economic conditions caused by the pandemic do not recover as currently estimated by management or market factors utilized in the impairment analysis deteriorate, we could incur additional goodwill
impairment charges in the future.

Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets

We also determined in the first quarter of 2020 that the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business was a triggering event that prompted the need to perform interim impairment testing of our indefinite-lived intangible assets. For the TOMMY HILFIGER, CALVIN KLEIN, Van Heusen, Warner’s and Olga tradenames and the reacquired perpetual license rights forTOMMY HILFIGER in India, we elected to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it was more likely than not that the fair value 
of any asset was less than its carrying amount. For these assets, no impairment was identified as a result of our annual indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment test for 2019 and the fair values of these indefinite-lived intangible assets substantially exceeded their carrying amounts. The asset with the least excess fair value had an estimated fair value that exceeded its carrying amount by approximately 85% as of the date of our 2019 annual test. Considering this and other factors, we 
determined qualitatively that it was not more likely than not that the fair values of these indefinite-lived intangible assets were less than their carrying amounts and concluded that the quantitative impairment test in the first quarter of 2020 was not required.

For the ARROW andGeoffrey Beene tradenames and the reacquired perpetual license rights recorded in connection with the Australia acquisition, we elected to bypass the qualitative assessment and proceeded directly to the quantitative impairment test. As a result of this quantitative interim impairment testing, we recorded $47 million of noncash impairment charges in the first quarter of 2020 to write down the two tradenames. This included $36 million to write down theARROW tradename, which had a 
carrying amount as of the date of our interim test of $79 million, to a fair value of $43 million, and $12 million to write down theGeoffrey Beene tradename, which had a carrying amount of $17 million, to a fair value of $5 million. The $47 million of impairment charges recorded in the first quarter of 2020 was included in goodwill and other intangible asset impairments in our Consolidated Statement of Operations and allocated to our Heritage Brands Wholesale segment. Holding all other 
assumptions used in the interim test constant, a 100 basis point change in the annual revenue growth rate of the Arrow business would result in a change to the estimated fair value of the tradename of approximately $5 million. Likewise, a 100 basis point change in the weighted average cost of capital would result in a change to the estimated fair value of the tradename of approximately $5 million. Holding all other assumptions used in the interim test constant, a 100 basis point change to the 
annual revenue growth rate or weighted average cost of capital in the Geoffrey Beene business would result in an immaterial change to the estimated fair value of the tradename.

With regard to the reacquired perpetual license rights recorded in connection with the Australia acquisition, we determined in the first quarter of 2020 that its fair value substantially exceeded its carrying amount and, therefore, the asset was not impaired.

The fair value of the ARROW andGeoffrey Beene tradenames was determined using an income-based relief-from-royalty method. Under this method, the value of an asset is estimated based on the hypothetical cost savings that accrue as a result of not having to license the tradename from another party. These cash flows are discounted to present value using a discount rate

that factors in the relative risk of the intangible asset. We discounted the cash flows used to value the ARROW andGeoffrey Beene tradenames at a rate of 10%. The fair value of our reacquired perpetual license rights recorded in connection with the Australia acquisition was determined using an income approach, which estimates the net cash flows directly attributable to the subject intangible asset. These cash flows are discounted to present value using a discount rate that factors in the 
relative risk of the intangible asset. We discounted the cash flows used to value the reacquired perpetual license rights recorded in connection with the Australia acquisition at a rate of 10%. We classified the fair values of these indefinite-lived intangible assets as Level 3 fair value measurements due to the use of significant unobservable inputs.

There have been no events or change in circumstances during the second quarter of 2020 that would indicate the remaining carrying amount of our indefinite-lived intangible assets may be impaired as of August 2, 2020. There is still significant uncertainty about the duration and extent of the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. If economic conditions caused by the pandemic do not recover as currently estimated by management or market factors utilized in the impairment analysis deteriorate, we could
incur additional indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charges in the future.

Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance

We adopted, effective the first quarter of 2020, accounting guidance related to credit losses, that introduces a new impairment model used to measure credit losses for certain financial assets measured at amortized cost, including trade and other receivables. This guidance requires entities to record an allowance for credit losses using a forward-looking expected loss impairment model that considers historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect 
collectibility, rather than the incurred loss model required under existing guidance. We also adopted, effective the first quarter of 2020, accounting guidance related to goodwill impairment, which eliminates the requirement to calculate the implied fair value of goodwill to measure the amount of the goodwill impairment charge, if any, under the second step of the goodwill impairment test. Please see Note 21, “Recent Accounting Guidance,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
included in Part I, Item 1 of this report for further discussion.

During the twenty-six weeks ended August 2, 2020, there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies from those described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended February 2, 2020, except for the items mentioned above.

